Title: The Abrogation Issue
Author: Aabedan.org
ISBN: 9786259387703
Source: https://archive.org/details/abrogationissue
Licence: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/

'THE
ABROGATION
ISSUE

The website http://aabedan.org
contains electronic copies of the
book and all the linked material.

THE ABROGATION ISSUE

Fenill Aoi

Written by Aabedan

ct
o

aabedan.org

Aabedan

(pseudonym for both co-authors)
zamalek @ gmail.com (temporary)

ISBN: 978-625-93877-0-3

©2025 Aabedan (pseudonym) First Edition

All rights reserved. No printing, change of format, alteration, translation, or
commercial use of this book, in whole or in part, is allowed without a proof
published on our site (aabedan.org) of written permission from the authors.

First published on 10 October 2025.

mpl cpeml All eee

In the Name of God, the Beneficent, the Merciful

Preface

This book addresses the question of abrogation of verses in the Quran, a sub-
ject that has had its share of controversy. We approach the subject from
a Muslim perspective, and we try to analyze all evidence objectively.

We are focused on one question only: Are there abrogated verses in the
Quranic script? Such verses would be no longer binding for Muslims according
to the definition of abrogation. The book is not concerned with other types
of abrogation, where what is abrogated is not a verse in the Quranic script.

The book is organized into 12 chapters grouped in three parts. Part I has
three chapters explaining the fundamentals of abrogation. Part II has five
chapters discussing the various claims of abrogation of specific verses in the
Quran. Part III has four chapters debating the principle of abrogated Quranic
verses and analyzing its origins.

In addition, the book has extensive attachments. These include the list
of all 432 claims of abrogation of Quranic verses in the literature that we
surveyed. They also include the full text of all 83 authenticated narrations
in that literature that are related to claims of abrogation of particular verses.
A time line of pertinent scholars since the dawn of Islam until the present time
is also included.

The intended readership for this book is broad, ranging from scholars to
non-specialists who are interested in the subject. Because of this, we explain
things from scratch that may be obvious to scholars. Non-specialists may find
some parts of the book to be more studious (Chapter 9 for example), and may
opt to navigate those parts in a more cursory fashion.

In researching the subject, we examined numerous books by bona fide
Islamic scholars as well as other references. Their topics spanned abrogation,
exegesis of the Quran, narrations and authentication, Islamic jurisprudence,
Islamic history, other Islamic studies, and social science.

In the References section, we list the items that we cited (more than 200
references cited over 1500 times throughout the book). In the electronic copy
of the book, we link each citation to the actual reference pages that were cited

vil

PREFACE

so that the reader can verify the accuracy and the context of the citation. We
also link each item in the References section to an image of its cover page.
Readers of the printed book can access these resources in two online files
(aabedan.org).

We wrote the book in two corresponding versions, one in Arabic and one
in English. Both versions have original writings; neither is just a translation
of the other.

On a personal note, both co-authors of this book choose to remain anony-
mous. We respectfully ask everyone to honor our request for privacy, and we
hope that the book will be judged on its own merits. We are grateful to those
who helped us and to the reviewers of the draft manuscript for the time and
effort they have selflessly put in to improve the book.

Aabedan (Two Worshipers)
[pseudonym of the co-authors]

Mecca - February 2025

vill

Contents

- titles below are clickable links -

Preface

I. The Fundamentals

1 What Is Abrogation?
Tek. HAT NS "a, acu ee oh Adal Bot Be Be Stee ee ie taco, a gS
1.2 Origin of the Word .........0....0. 0.2.0.0. 000.
1.3 The Abrogation Doctrine ..................0.0.
1.4 Abrogation Claims ........... 0.0... 022020000.
15 cA Brief History: ea aa el ee ee ee SS
1.6 Does Religion Change?... 2... 0.0.0.0... 0.0 2000.
1.7 Approaching the Subject... .............22..0040.

2 The Burden Of Proof
2.1 Burden for Individual Claims ...................
2.2 Irreconcilable Conflict ........0..0...0.0. 0000000.
2.3 Authoritative Narration ........0.0.0. 000000 eae
2.3.1 Uncertainty in Sourcing ..... 2.2.0... .20.0.0020.
2.3.2 Uncertainty in Significance ............0020.
2.4 Burden for the General Doctrine .................

3 The Methodology
3.1 Overall Methodology ................. 0.020004
3.1.1 Bias and Conflation ..................0..
3.2. Sorting out Abrogation Claims ................0..
3.3 Rule-Based Methodology. ..................00.,
3.3.1 Rules Based on Reconciliation. ..............
3.3.2 Rules Based on Principle .................
3.4 Analysis-Based Methodology - (3:102) ..............

ix

vii

CONTENTS

II The Claims

4 Famous Claims
4.1 Widow's Residence (2:240) .

4.1.1 Impact of an Abrogation Claim ..............

4.2 Intoxication and Prayer (4:43
4.3 Fasting Exemption (2:184) .

Dasa eteiha | Pec hats

4.4 Debauchery Penalty (4:15-16) .. 2... ....0.0......00.
4.5 Thought Accountability (2:284) ...............00.

5 The Big Three
5.1 Private Consultation (58:12)
5.1.1 Impact of Inauthentic
5.2 Steadfastness in Battle (8:65)
5.3 Night Prayer (73:1-4)....

6 Other Famous Claims
6.1 Leaving a Will (2:180) ...
6.2 The "Sword Verse" Claims .
6.2.1 Fighting Claims . .
6.3 Al-Suyuti's Twenty .....

7 Less Famous Claims

Evidence..............

7.1 Allowed Food (2:173, 5:3, 6:121, 16:115) .............

7.2 Forbidden Foods (6:145) . .
7.3 Unforgivable Sins (2:81, 4:18)
7.4 Fate of Non-Muslims (2:62, 5
7.5 Legal Retribution (2:178) .
7.6 Intentional Killing (4:93) . .
7.7 Accidental Killing (4:92) . .
7.8 Fighting Back (2:190) ...

8 Weaker Claims
8.1 Validation-Based Claims . .
8.2 Blanket Claims .......

ee eee nere

8.2.1 The "Zakah Verse" Claims ................

8.3 Frivolous Claims ......

III The Doctrine

9 Quranic Evidence
9.1 The Passages ........
9.2 Circumstances of Revelation

CONTENTS

9.3.1 Physical Miracle?...................00..
9.3.2 Previous Scripture? ..............2.2.00-.
9.353" ~Riling dn as Verse) oe wruegedasos othe: putes Va aoty S
9.4 The Abrogation Verse (2:106) ..............2004.
9.4.1 Anti-Abrogation Interpretation ..............
9.4.2 Pro-Abrogation Interpretation ..............
9.5 The Substitution Verse (16:101)..............00..
9.5.1 Difference between 2:106 and 16:101 ...........
916) Other Verses." 25-4 ahs ae Boe Ps dose Sok ee pote Seve SD
9.6.1 The Erase-and-Confirm Verse (13:39) ..........
9.6.2 The Forgetfulness Verse (87:6) ...........0-.%

10 Other Evidence
10.1 Separation of Recitation and Ruling ...............
10.2 Conflated Evidence... .........0....02. 0202002
10:3: Unanimity Claim: », 2 0.00.4. ce ec ck ww we a
10.4 Narrations by Early Muslims ...................
10.4.1 'Doomed and Dooming' Story. ..............
10.4.2 Narrations by Ibn Abbas (RA)... .........000.%
10.4.3 Other Narrations...................0.4.

11 Counter-Evidence
11.1 - Quranic: Verses; 8 daa 2 AR AO ee BREE BES
11.1.1 Verse Against Conflict... ........0..0....0..
11.1.2 Verses Against Annulment. ................
11.1.3 Verse Against Uncertainty. ................
11.2 Other Elements................ 00.0000 0005
11.2.1 Prophetic Narration .................0..
11.2.2 Lack of Designation ..................0..
11.3 Anti-Abrogation Voices . 2... 0... 0.0.0.0. 20000004
11.4 The Other Abrogation Verse (22:52) ...........0.0..

12 How Did This Happen?
12:1..How Did TtStart? ia kon ea BR ee Ee ee ee
12.1.1 The word 'naskh'. 2... 0.
12.1.2 Inauthentic Narrations................00.
12.2 How Did It Take Hold? ...................04.
VOe200 sTeitatiOns on... :ecseest exe ae a Seige ae ee ts Boe & Ee dw 3
T262225 COnatiOnmi.* Le axe dual ates a) ae ae es ey ey GP ah ee ed
1233. Binal-"Thoughts:.i: 4 veces. ate ea ae eh as aye Ge at | a
12.3.1 Similar Situations In History ...............
12.3.2 Going Forward .................2..00.0,

xi

CONTENTS

IV Attachments

Appendix

Av. :SidésNotes 2. oS NY th ae er ea a NY Bh oe OS
A.2 List of Abrogation Claims ...................0.0.
A.3 Abrogation Claim Narrations ................0.4.
A.4 Short Biographies... ............. 000000000.
A.5 Time Line of Scholars ...............2...20000.
A.6 Revelation Order in the Quran ..................
A.7 Other Types of Abrogation .................0.0.

A.7.1 Other Types of Abrogation of Quranic Verses ......

A.7.2. Abrogation of Other than Quranic Verses ........

References

Index
Indéx:-of Perms: aco st oS bot A ees Be ee A a ee Sh
Index of Persons .. 2... 0. 2
Tnidl@x:-Of Verses! 0.6 os ee eh en Pe AA Sok ee RRS

xi

xill

» Side notes (large numbers appearing in the mar-
gin) refer to detailed comments that are included
in Appendix A.1 on page 309.

Xiv

Part I

The Fundamentals

V Ve start with the fundamentals of what abrogation is and
the role it plays in inferring the rulings of the Quran. We

then set the stage for debating the evidence for and against
abrogation, and outline the methodology that will be followed
in the rest of the book.

Chapter 1

What Is Abrogation?

Abrogation, a common translation of the Arabic word naskh (@5), is a sig-
nificant issue in Islamic jurisprudence. To the uninitiated, abrogation may be
an unknown or vague concept of little practical consequence. However, it is
in fact of enormous consequence, both theologically and practically. In this
chapter, we introduce the definition and background of abrogation before we
delve into the full analysis of this notion in the rest of the book.

1.1 Example

What does abrogation of a verse in the Quran mean? Let us start with an ex-
ample. The Quran states in verse 2:256 that "There is no compulsion in religion
se" (ete if ee cpl 3 lS} y . Some scholars contend that this has
been abrogated. This would mean that "no compulsion in religion" is no longer
a ruling that Muslims need to follow, notwithstanding the fact that the verse
remains part of the Quran.

It is important to realize what abrogation actually entails. It does not
mean that the abrogated ruling needs to be reconciled with other rulings that
may also apply. Nor does it mean that this ruling should be adapted to the
circumstances of a given situation. It means that this ruling has been totally
annulled. It is not to be taken into consideration at all, regardless of the
situation at hand.

Notice that we are not discussing the validity of this particular abrogation
example. We are only explaining what it means for a ruling to be abrogated.
In fact, the majority of scholars believe that this ruling is not abrogated.
However, a notable minority believes that it is.

1. Wuat Is ABROGATION? 1.2. ORIGIN OF THE WORD

Clearly, scholars who disagree about whether a ruling is abrogated may
reach vastly different conclusions in matters where this ruling would be appli-
cable, since they would be basing their conclusions on different sets of rules.
In this particular example, it is easy to see how reaching one conclusion versus
another can have serious consequences in practice.

One may react to an abrogation claim with which one disagrees by rejecting
the notion of abrogation altogether. However, these are two different, albeit
related premises. It is possible that the notion of abrogation is valid, but
a particular abrogation claim is not. Hence, there are two distinct questions
to ask.

First, is the abrogation of some verses in the Quran a valid notion? If
so, is a particular claim that a verse is abrogated a valid claim? The second
question, applied to various claims, is the subject of Part II in this book.
This sets the stage for discussing the first question in Part III. Why are we
addressing the two questions in reverse order? This will become clear when
we present our methodology in Chapter 3.

1.2 Origin of the Word

The Arabic word naskh! which is translated to 'abrogation' is explicitly men-
tioned in the Quran:

Ty

fo tis tate sotesssly cu)
[252d € 538 sise §

[2:106] Whatever verse We may abrogate] or cause to be forgot-

ten, We bring better than it or similar to it. Did you not know that
God is quite capable of everything?

This Quranic verse, which we will refer to as the abrogation verse, is where
the concept of abrogation originated in Islamic jurisprudence, and where it
got its keyword naskh. The above translation of the abrogation verse reflects
the most common understanding of what the verse states.

Linguistically, the word naskh in Arabic has alternative meanings.? Some
scholars have appealed to those alternative meanings as they interpreted the
verse differently. There are other verses in the Quran that address the general
notion of abrogation, but the above verse is the original source of the word.

lWords that are transliterated from Arabic, such as naskh, bear their Arabic meaning
and will be written in italic font. Other Arabic words adopted in English dictionaries will
be treated as English words.

?The word aaya (£1), which translates to
be discussed in detail in §9.3.

'verse', also has alternative meanings that will

1. Wuat Is ABROGATION? 1.3. THE ABROGATION DOCTRINE

In addition to the different linguistic meanings of the word naskh, other
technical meanings became associated with naskh as a theological term. The
fellows? of Prophet Muhammad (pBuH)* used the word naskh to refer to a rul-
ing that qualifies another ruling, rather than abrogate it altogether, which is
linguistically valid.

For instance, Ibn Abbas (Ra)°® used the word to mean that a ruling has
made exceptions to, modifications of, or restrictions on another ruling. A case
in point is when he commented on a passage in the Quran (verses 26:224-
227) that warns against following the whims of poets as they wander in every
direction and say what they do not do. God then makes an exception from
that, citing those who are righteous believers. Ibn Abbas (RA) characterized

this by saying "then He abrogated from that and made an exception" (ons
iy SNS S) using the Arabic word naskh for abrogation (Al-Bukhari [37)).

It is clear that nothing in this passage was annulled that would justify using
the term 'abrogation' in its technical meaning. Indeed, just the expression

"abrogated from that", which Ibn Abbas (RA) chose, shows that he sometimes
used the term naskh to mean making an exception from something general.

The broad meaning of the word naskh was adopted by early Islamic schol-
ars, most notably by the Abu-Hanifa school of thought (Zeid [206]). This
created semantic ambiguity about what the key figures in the abrogation lit-
erature had meant when they used the word naskh. As we will see in Part I,
this semantic ambiguity plays no small role in the ensuing controversy about
whether a Quranic verse claimed abrogated actually is.

1.3. The Abrogation Doctrine

The subject of abrogation has a long history. Many dedicated books have been
written about it, as can be seen in the bibliography on page 457. The subject
is not restricted to abrogation of verses in the Quran, which is the focus of this
book, nor has the notion always meant annulment of what is being 'abrogated'.

In fact, abrogation (or more precisely, naskh) has at times been used as
an umbrella device in the reconciliation of religious sources. In this book,
we are addressing one specific tenet of abrogation, which also happens to be
the most prevalent in the abrogation literature. We start here by encapsulat-
ing what that specific tenet is and refer to it as the Abrogation Doctrine® to
distinguish it from other forms of abrogation.

3The fellows ({L-2)l) are close contemporaries of the Prophet (PBUH).*

4The acronym PBUH stands for 'Peace be upon him'.

5'RA', Arabic shorthand for 'May God be pleased with them', is an honorary acronym
for the fellows of the Prophet (PBUH).

SA term first introduced by Asad [130]. He called the subject 'a doctrine of abrogation'.

1. Wuat Is ABROGATION? 1.3. THE ABROGATION DOCTRINE

The definition of the Abrogation Doctrine captures two issues; what abro-
gation of a verse in the Quran means, and how it is determined that a verse
is abrogated. The latter part is an integral part of the doctrine since Islamic
scholars have been unanimous that no authentic statement exists where God
or His Messenger (PBUH) explicitly designated a verse in the Quranic script as
abrogated. Therefore, other methods are used to make that determination.

The Abrogation Doctrine:

1. There are verses in the Quranic script that have been abrogated.
As such, there is no longer a mandate to follow them.

2. In the absence of explicit designation of such verses as abrogated
by God or by the Prophet (PBUH), it is permissible to identify
these verses through reasoning based on other evidence.

The Abrogation Doctrine, as defined above, is the focus of this book. We
do mention other types of abrogation in the discussions to come in order to
clarify the issues and put the doctrine in context. However, our one and only
goal is to weigh the evidence for and against the Abrogation Doctrine, not any
other type of abrogation.

The above definition is only concerned with verses in the Quranic script
(" teeod| cae ox" which translates to "between the two covers of the Quranic
script"). T he reason for this distinction is that there are reported narrations,
however controversial their authenticity may be (Appendix A.7.1), about
Quranic verses that had been eliminated during the life of the Prophet (PBUH).
Since these verses, if they existed, have not made it to the Quranic script as
the Prophet (PBUH) left it for us before his death, they do not fall under the
purview of the Abrogation Doctrine which is our only subject.

As we see from the definition, the Abrogation Doctrine makes two distinct
assertions. The first assertion is about the existence of abrogated verses in the
Quranic script. The second assertion is about the methodology of identifying
such verses. The first assertion is essential to the doctrine; if there are no ab-
rogated verses in the first place, there is nothing to identify. However, if there
are abrogated verses, then it is of paramount importance how to legitimately
identify them since no verse has been designated as abrogated by God or by
His Messenger (PBUH).

We are taking pains to pin down the notions accurately because we ob-
served that some of the debates about abrogation, and some of the references
to agreement or disagreement about it, suffer from mixing different notions or
not being explicit about these notions. A case in point is that different types
of abrogation are sometimes conflated together, thus allowing the evidence for

1. Wuat Is ABROGATION? 1.3. THE ABROGATION DOCTRINE

one type of abrogation to be used to argue for the validity of another type.
Let's look at two examples.

1. The occurrence of abrogation across the Abrahamic religions is easy to
establish. For instance, Jesus (PBUH) is quoted in the Quran saying:

weal 5h oc pts eal Jolyans ge Sats Bats p
[o:: Ol pase Ju if sus
[3:50] And [I have come] confirming what was before me of the
Torah and to make lawful for you some of what was forbidden to you

which is a clear case of abrogation of previous rulings. In this case, the abro-
gated rulings belong to a previous religion.

2. The occurrence of abrogation among narrations of the Prophet (PBUH) is also
easy to establish. For instance, there is a narration that quotes the Prophet
(PBUH) saying' "I [Muhammad] had forbidden you from visiting the graves;
now visit them" which is a clear case of abrogation of a previous ruling within
the same religion.

Although these are compelling examples of abrogation, their object of ab-
rogation is not a verse in the Quranic script, which is what the Abrogation
Doctrine is about. If one type of abrogation has occurred, it doesn't mean
that all types of abrogation have occurred. In particular, it doesn't mean that
the Abrogation Doctrine as defined above is valid.

Throughout this book, we will refer to certain scholars as either pro-
abrogation or anti-abrogation. By pro-abrogation, we mean someone who be-
lieves that the Abrogation Doctrine is valid. Similarly, anti-abrogation means
someone who believes that the Abrogation Doctrine is not valid. Whether
a person believes in other forms of abrogation, such as abrogation of previous
scriptures or abrogation of Prophetic narrations, has no bearing on the terms
pro-abrogation and anti-abrogation as used in this book.

point of interest

Most studies of abrogation include early sections about the differ-
ent definitions and different types of abrogation. This book does
not. The reason is that we are only addressing one notion of ab-
rogation, that of a verse in the Quranic script whose ruling is no
longer to be taken into consideration.

7This quote is part of a hadith (Prophetic narration) reported and authenticated by
Muslim [189]. See side note 4 for details.

1. Wuat Is ABROGATION? 1.4. ABROGATION CLAIMS

Why is the Abrogation Doctrine our exclusive focus? The reason is that
the doctrine deals with the most revered source of jurisprudence in Islam. The
Quran is believed to be the authentic word of God, letter for letter, by all sects
and schools of thought in Islam. There is no disagreement about the text of
the Quran as the Prophet (PBuH) left it for us. Since the Abrogation Doctrine
annuls certain verses in the Quran, the stakes are quite high.

1.4 Abrogation Claims

While the Abrogation Doctrine asserts that there are abrogated verses, it
does not identify those verses. Indeed, the vast majority of scholars over the
centuries agree that there are abrogated verses in the Quranic script, but when
it comes to which verses are abrogated, there is vast disagreement. The reason
for disagreement is that the methodology for determining abrogated verses is
subjective. How is it subjective?

There is no verse in the Quranic script that has been designated as abro-
gated by God or by His Messenger (PBUH), a criterion that would be objective.
Instead, all claims of abrogation have relied on evidence other than explicit
divine designation. As a result, there are hundreds of these claims and almost
every book about abrogation has a different list of what the author considers
to be the abrogated verses. There is not a single verse that is claimed to be
abrogated on which all pro-abrogation scholars agree.®

How is a verse determined to be abrogated? The key part of the method-
ology is to argue that there is a conflict between two verses in the Quranic
script such that they cannot be both operative, hence one of them must be ab-
rogated. There is sometimes other evidence to corroborate the conflict-based
argument, but conflict is the key ingredient in abrogation claims.

point of interest

Perceived conflict is the basis for all abrogation claims found in the
literature.

This is the main reason why there is such disagreement about which verses
are abrogated. Any perceived conflict between verses depends on how the
verses are interpreted, so one interpretation may highlight a conflict while
another interpretation may reconcile the verses. The vast disagreement about

8This conclusion is based on tracking each claim across the abrogation literature. Scholars
with different opinions on each of the common claims will be mentioned when that claim is
discussed in Part II. Also, see side note 5.

1. Wuat Is ABROGATION? 1.4. ABROGATION CLAIMS

which verses are abrogated is illustrated in Appendix A.2, where the list of
abrogation claims and the number of supporters and opponents for each claim
are tabulated.

Here is an example of disagreement about an abrogation claim based on
whether a conflict is perceived. Before alcoholic beverages were prohibited by
the Quran, this verse was revealed:

Gis 2.6, 6 oil; LAN | ie Ni ai eI
[evs sll] € .. Gules

[4:43] O you who have believed, do not approach prayer while you
are intoxicated until you know what you are saying ...

Those who see a conflict argue that the above verse implies that alcoholic
beverages are allowed, except that you should not drink them before prayer
time. This would mean that this verse was abrogated when total prohibition
was mandated by a later verse. Those who do not see a conflict argue that
the above verse says nothing about whether alcoholic beverages are allowed.
Rather, the verse is about praying while intoxicated, independently of the
ruling on alcoholic beverages. This is one of the most famous abrogation
claims in Islamic literature.®

The abrogation literature provides clear evidence that identifying which
verses are abrogated is a matter of opinion. The differing opinions are stark,
even among major scholars. Early on, Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] included 247 abroga-
tion claims in his book, approving some and dismissing others. Al-Suyuti [100]
settled on 20 cases as valid abrogation claims and dismissed the rest saying
"claiming abrogation in other verses is not correct." Waliyullah [203] referred
to Al-Suyuti's claims but dismissed most of them, stating that "abrogation is
not indicated except in 5 verses." Zeid |206] also approved 5 claims only,'°
ferring to them as "the abrogation instances that are correct." However, Zeid's
5 claims are different from Waliyullah's 5 claims; they have only 2 verses in
common.

These variations are typical among abrogation scholars because of the dis-
parity in what they perceive as a real conflict between verses, and this shapes
the way the Abrogation Doctrine as a whole is debated. To refute the doc-
trine, some anti-abrogation scholars analyze claims one by one and attempt
to reconcile the verses, showing that there is no conflict that would warrant
a claim of abrogation. Others argue against the legitimacy of the abrogation
doctrine itself and the validity of its methodology.

9A detailed discussion of the claim is in §4.2.

10Tn an apparent take on Zeid's use of the phrase "abrogation in the Quran" in the title
of his book, Al-Jabri [55] used the phrase "no abrogation in the Quran" in the title of his
subsequent book rebutting Zeid's 5 claims.

1. Wuat Is ABROGATION? 1.5. A BrizF HISTORY

Using a legal metaphor, the first group refutes each claim in substance
by attacking its specific merits, while the second group attempts to refute all
claims at once in form, by attacking the premise that gave rise to those claims
in the first place. Most anti-abrogation books use a combination of both.

1.5 A Brief History

The history of the Abrogation Doctrine is elaborate; how it started, how it
evolved, and the key figures in its time line.!! Again, we are addressing abro-
gation of verses within the Quranic script, not other forms of abrogation. The
doctrine's notion that a verse remains physically in the Quranic script, to be
recited as part of the Quran but not to be followed, has its roots in an expres-
sion that was first coined decades after the death of the Prophet (PBUH). The
expression

3 Ms)\ oy ee) >5| aes

(abrogation of the ruling but not of the recitation) is indeed the core of the
Abrogation Doctrine. This expression does not appear in a single narration
that dates back to the time of the Prophet (PBUH). The expression is based on
an opinion attributed to the fellows of Ibn Masoud in the mid to late first hijri
century.!* It became a standard expression used by scholars who write about
the Abrogation Doctrine.

The early days of the Abrogation Doctrine left us with no written docu-
ments. Writing books was not the norm at the time, so there is no contem-
poraneous written account of abrogation in the decades following the death
of the Prophet (PBUH). Even after writing started, many of the first writings
were subsequently lost (Zeid [206]). However, later books that survived often
cited the earlier scholars, thus shedding light on their writings. What is clear
is that the notion of abrogation was common in those early days, but it is also
clear that the number of verses that were considered abrogated was limited.

Abrogation became a more structured and studied notion with the advent
of major scholars in the second and third centuries of the Islamic era, starting
with Imam'? Abu-Hanifa who used abrogation as an analytic tool in the cre-
ation of his school of thought in Islamic jurisprudence. Later, Imam Al-Shafei,
who is known for his discipline in Islamic scholarship, created a structure that
restricts the scope of abrogation. The early book by Ibn Sallam [171] doc-
uments the abrogation claims up till that era, and their number remained
relatively small.

11A more comprehensive time line of scholars is included in Appendix A.5.

!2The Prophet (PBUH) died in the 11th year of the Islamic hijri calendar, so that calendar
approximately corresponds to the time since his death.

13 An honorary Arabic title that means scholarly leader.

1. Wuat Is ABROGATION? 1.5. A BrirF HISTORY

Later on, two scholars on opposite sides of the issue made lasting contri-
butions around the same time. Al-Tabari [107] provided detailed support for
the Abrogation Doctrine in his seminal exegesis of the Quran. Al-Asfahani
[21] was the first major scholar known to be openly anti-abrogation, dismiss-
ing all abrogation claims and opposing the Abrogation Doctrine altogether.
Al-Asfahani's anti-abrogation stand did not hinder the Abrogation Doctrine
at all. In the following century, Al-Jassas [57] criticized Al-Asfahani's views
and helped establish abrogation as a full-fledged discipline.

During that era, a number of books dedicated to abrogation were written
and the number of abrogation claims increased dramatically. This does not
mean that verses became abrogated as time went by. The unanimous view of
scholars is that whether a verse is abrogated is something that could not change
after the death of the Prophet (PBUH). The added claims were merely newly
discovered abrogation cases, arrived at through analysis by scholars from the
new era. The most notable addition to the roster of abrogated verses was more
than a hundred verses about tolerance that were claimed to be abrogated by
a single verse; the fifth verse in Chapter 9 of the Quran (4g! 3,4).

In the next few centuries, a pushback against the explosion of abrogation
claims started to take hold. Al-Zahiri [121] and Ibn Al-Hassar (Hammad [137])
raised the bar for accepting an abrogation claim. Al-Suyuti [100], who lived in
the ninth Aijri century, limited the number of abrogation claims to 20 verses
and dismissed the rest as false claims.

point of interest

Al-Suyuti [100] wrote a poem more than 500 years ago summariz-
ing his views about abrogation claims. He may not have realized
it at the time, but his views profoundly changed the trajectory of
abrogation in Islamic history, even though the main book that he
wrote about the subject was lost and never recovered.

The tendency to limit the number of abrogation claims continued after
that, and centuries later Waliyullah [203] declared that there are only 5 verses
that are abrogated. This trend continued until the modern era when a number
of scholars started dismissing almost all abrogation claims and questioning the
foundations of the Abrogation Doctrine. A notable minority of scholars over
the last century have indeed opposed the Abrogation Doctrine altogether.

14Commonly referred to as the sword verse although 'sword' does not appear in it.

1. Wuat Is ABROGATION? 1.6. DoES RELIGION CHANGE?

1.6 Does Religion Change?

The concept of abrogation often raises alarm bells. Any change within religion
may seem inconsistent with the idea of divine revelation, since it may suggest
that what needed to be changed had been imperfect. We will argue in this
section that this is not the case.

We note that change in religion can happen through addition or subtrac-
tion, where a new ruling is mandated or an old ruling is eliminated. Let us
take a closer look at each of these.

e Mandating new rulings. It is a matter of historical record that religious
rulings in Islam were rolled out gradually during the life of the Prophet (PBuH).
For instance, the fast during the month of Ramadan was mandated almost
15 years after the first revelation of the Quran. Many Muslims died during
those years, including the Prophet's first wife Khadija (RA). This means that
something as fundamental as the Ramadan fast was not part of Islam for the
entire life of those Muslims, who are arguably among the most distinguished
Muslims who walked the face of the earth.

The incremental addition of religious rulings during the time of revelation
is logical. Gradual change is a practical approach that allows people to adjust
to an entirely new way of life. Leaving entrenched old habits and customs, and
embracing new concepts and rules, is a gradual, dynamic process. An entire
book by Al-Bahiyy [25] is dedicated to tallying and analyzing the instances,
and wisdom, of gradual legislation in Islam.

Not only was there a proper dose of new obligations to assume, but there
was also a proper dose of spiritual support that early Muslims needed. They
confronted a hostile society around them, and the gradual nature of the reve-
lation helped make every newly revealed Quranic passage a source of comfort
and reassurance for them. This role of gradual revelation is addressed in the
Quran itself:

EGE) WSS Holy HA Sali ale JB VS ee Gall Js
[rs : OW alll € L355 G55 BSI

[25:32] And those who disbelieve say, 'If only the Quran was sent
down upon him as one whole'. It is the way [We sent it] so that We
may affirm your heart by it, and We have spaced it distinctly.

While the change through mandating new rulings is easy to understand as
part of the delivery process of a new religion, the change through elimination
is a more involved concept.

e Eliminating old rulings. The notion that any religious ruling would be

1. Wuat Is ABROGATION? 1.6. DoES RELIGION CHANGE?

eliminated after it was instituted, which is what abrogation does, has been at-
tacked as evidence of Al-badaa (¢\s3\) or "appearance of a better idea" (derived
from bada lahu 4 \3g which means 'occurred to him'). The premise of Al-badaa
is that if God abrogated a previous ruling that He had mandated, that would
amount to a change of mind which obviously is not possible with the Divine.
The issue of Al-badaa has been advanced by some in the anti-abrogation camp
as an argument against the possibility of abrogation.

The assertion that abrogation amounts to a change of mind is readily
refutable. Consider the narration of the Prophet (PBUH) mentioned earlier in
this chapter where he says "I [Muhammad] had forbidden you from visiting
the graves; now visit them." Was this change of mind?

In this narration, the Prophet (PBUH) did not specify his reasons for making
the change,!° but scholars have argued convincingly about the reasons (Ibn
Uthaymin [176]). Early Muslims came from a lifetime of idol worshiping and
mythical rituals. It stands to logic that when they joined Islam, they needed
to 'detox' from pre-Islamic habits.

Some of these habits were rituals over death and graves, and the command
came to forbid them from visiting the graves lest they should fall back into old
habits. When they became more settled in their new faith, the precaution was
no longer needed and the command was lifted. This is an interpretation that
shows that it is not a change of mind, but rather a change of circumstances
that calls for different rulings.

It was not a change of mind either when Jesus (PBUH) allowed foods that had
been forbidden before him (see page 7). Different nations could be tested for
their obedience to God through different rules about which foods are allowed.

The change of circumstances is a common theme in the abrogation litera-
ture. If you look at the various claims of abrogation, scholars often invoked
change of circumstances as the rationale for why abrogation took place.

point to ponder

While a change of circumstances may explain why abrogation
would happen, it does not explain why a verse that was abrogated
would remain in the Quranic script, unlabeled.

It is worth noting that Al-badaa was not only used as an argument by the
anti-abrogation camp, but even more prominently by some foes of Islam who
used abrogation as a point of attack. Those foes, perhaps inadvertently, may
have contributed to the growth of the Abrogation Doctrine as Muslim scholars
reacted to the attacks during a critical era in Islamic jurisprudence.

15Other versions of this narration give reasons for the new order, such as a reminder of
death, but we chose to present the most authentic version.

1. Wuat Is ABROGATION? 1.6. DoES RELIGION CHANGE?

A case in point is Al-Jassas, who is considered by some as a major fig-
ure in establishing the Abrogation Doctrine. Al-Jassas lived in Kufa,!® Iraq,
and belonged to Imam Abu-Hanifa's school of thought. Abrogation (or rather
naskh in the more general sense) played a role in Abu-Hanifa's approach to
jurisprudence. It was also in that era that persistent Al-badaa attacks on abro-
gation by non-Muslims took place. Al-Jassas and others reacted by adjusting
the definition of abrogation to counter the idea of Al-badaa, and by vigorously
supporting and consolidating the Abrogation Doctrine (Zeid {206]).

e The complete religion. The Abrogation Doctrine is concerned with the
Quranic script as the Prophet (PBuH) left it for us. At that point, the religion
had already been sealed as the Quran itself declares,

[y 58] ¢ ... eo EY 3

[5:3] ... Today | have perfected for you your religion and completed
My favor upon you and have approved for you Islam as religion ...

While the rulings in the Quran will not change, the practical situations we
encounter in life do change. Therefore, how these rulings apply to a given
situation remains a dynamic process. Here are two examples,

1. Sometimes two different rulings would be applicable to a given situation.
Depending on which ruling one applies, there would be a different course of
action. In this case, the specifics of the situation may tip us in favor of one
ruling over the other (ee .j| - preponderance). This does not mean that the
other ruling is now abrogated. It is still a valid ruling that will be applicable
in other situations.

2. Sometimes a ruling is contingent, which means that there are conditions
upon which the ruling is predicated. Contingency (<a) ile - the basis for the
ruling) implies that the ruling will go in and out of applicability depending on
whether its conditions are met. When a contingent ruling is not applied, it is
not because it was abrogated; it's because its contingency was not met.

It should be noted that preponderance, contingency, and other tools of
jurisprudence recognize all Quranic rulings as valid when they deal with any
situation, and then choose the rulings that best match that situation. Ab-
rogation, on the other hand, fully eliminates certain Quranic rulings from
consideration, regardless of the situation.

164 scholarly center of that era, located 100 miles south of Baghdad.

1. Wuat Is ABROGATION? 1.7. APPROACHING THE SUBJECT

1.7 Approaching the Subject

We approach the subject of abrogation from a Muslim point of view, where
the basic tenets of the religion are not in question. We take the Abrogation
Doctrine as an important component of Islamic jurisprudence, one on which
the majority of scholars agree. However, it is not part of the core Islamic
belief, and as such it is subject to discussion. Indeed, many scholars both
pro-abrogation and anti-abrogation have debated the subject in the past and
continue to debate it even more vigorously in the modern era.

The debate about abrogation is fraught with sensitivities. It touches on
ideological aspects in the religion, unlike other issues of jurisprudence that are
more technical in nature. Scholars from each side of the debate have at times
attacked the other side in very strong terms.

For example, pro-abrogation scholar Al-Qurtubi [80] refers to the Abroga-
tion Doctrine in his exegesis by saying: "Scholars would not do without its
knowledge, and only the ignorant, stupid would deny it." Al-Jabri [54], who
is anti-abrogation, refers to the Abrogation Doctrine as "a farce among the
biggest intellectual farces in the history of Quranic studies." Each side of the
debate feels that they are defending the Quran, either by defending the verses
about abrogation or by defending the verses that are claimed abrogated.

In researching the subject, we read every book about abrogation that we
could access. Those books represent different eras, different views, differ-
ent styles, and different qualities. Most are written by bona fide scholars.
Throughout this book, we will present the evidence and the arguments that
they offer. We will also present new evidence and new arguments, as well as
rebuttals of arguments where appropriate.

an)
After this overview, we move to presenting the case for and against the
Abrogation Doctrine. As a first step, we need to establish which side of the

debate has the burden of proof. This turns out to be an elaborate question,
which we address in detail in the next chapter.

Chapter 2

The Burden Of Proof

In order to properly weigh the evidence for and against the Abrogation Doc-
trine, we must first establish which side of the debate has the burden to prove
its case. We are not talking about who is right and who is wrong. We are
just establishing what it would take for each side to prevail in the debate.
The burden of proof is an established concept in Islam. For example, in legal
matters (Ibrahim [179]), the principle of « pas ie 45)!" (the substantiation
is on the claimant) determines that the burden of proof in this case is on the
prosecutor, not the defendant.

Which side of the abrogation debate has the burden of proof? While there
are differing opinions among scholars about many aspects of abrogation, one
aspect on which scholars from all sides of the debate agree is the high burden
of proof that needs to be met in order to claim that a given verse in the Quran
is abrogated. We will establish this fact here. The chapter will be heavy on
quotes by various scholars so as not to leave doubt about the high burden of
proof that has been agreed upon. After we establish this for individual claims,
we will then move to discuss the burden of proof for the Abrogation Doctrine
as a whole.

2.1 Burden for Individual Claims

Let us recall the main premise of the Abrogation Doctrine: There are verses in
the Quranic script that have been abrogated. There are two main approaches
for arguing in support of this premise. The first approach is to interpret
statements in the Quran such as 2:106 "Whatever verse We may abrogate ..." as
affirming the premise, independently of which verses happen to be abrogated.
The second approach is to take an individual case of two verses and argue that

2. THE BURDEN OF PROOF 2.1. BURDEN FOR INDIVIDUAL CLAIMS

one abrogates the other, thus establishing the premise by example.

When we look at an individual abrogation claim, what level of evidence and
reasoning is needed to prove that it is a valid claim? This is where the burden
of proof comes in, and it needs to be set before the debate starts. It turns
out that pro-abrogation scholars, who are the ones making the claims, have
themselves set a very high burden of proof for individual abrogation claims,
and have articulated that in no uncertain terms. We will quote a number of
prominent pro-abrogation scholars describing the high burden throughout this
section and the next two sections.

When one side of the debate concedes that the burden of proof is on them,
as the pro-abrogation scholars have done in the case of individual abrogation
claims, the other side can accept that standard and enforce it. The burden of
proof, therefore, becomes a matter of stipulation that governs the debate for
both sides.

Religious tradition has a principle similar to stipulation that is captured by
the Quranic expression in verse 12:26 "... and a witness from her family testified

ool TOV leauge Eo. (gai oe Jalé Agdy ... b. The context is the story of Joseph
(PBUH), when a woman falsely accused him of attacking her, and a member of
her family set the criterion for deciding who is lying. When the criterion was
applied, it showed that the woman was lying, and that conclusion had to be
accepted since it was her side that set the standard. Similarly, the other side
of the abrogation debate has the right to hold the pro-abrogation scholars to
the standard that they have themselves set in terms of the burden of proof.

There is a good reason why scholars have accepted that there is a high
burden for proving that a specific verse in the Quran is abrogated. A principle
that is universally recognized in Islamic jurisprudence, e.g., by Abu-Hanifa (Al-
Dabbusi [39]), is that certainty prevails "unless the opposite becomes certain"
(4s) 444 J 4). There is an entire book (Al-Bahussein [27|) dedicated to
that principle and its manifestations, with quotes of support from prominent
scholars throughout.

How does this principle apply to the abrogation of a Quranic verse? The
authenticity and authority of Quranic verses are the highest in Islam. This
necessitates the highest standard of confidence before one can overrule their
authority, which is what abrogation does. That is the essence of the various
quotes which we will now cite. The quotes in this section address that standard
of confidence directly, whereas the quotes in the next two sections detail how
the standard is applied to the specific evidence used in abrogation claims.

Let us start with prominent scholar Al-Zahiri [121] who is pro-abrogation.
He states, as he discusses abrogation in the Quran, that "it is unlawful for
anyone to say about any of the commands: 'This is abrogated', except with
crystal-clear proof (2J+ gls,), since they are all required to be obeyed, and

2. THE BURDEN OF PROOF 2.1. BURDEN FOR INDIVIDUAL CLAIMS

what we are certain about our obligation to obey is forbidden for us to go
against [just] because someone said it is abrogated." In the same paragraph,
he goes on to elaborate on the 'someone' reference by naming some of the most
revered and authoritative figures in Islamic history as examples.

Earlier in the book, Al-Zahiri [121] uses the word certainty (4%) when
he discusses what is needed to abrogate anything in the Quran. He then
reiterates the underlying principle in his own words; ".. what was established
by certainty is not to be annulled by suspicions", and requires "certainty of
abrogation with no doubt in it" (43 Ele Y fon ost), Setting a remarkably high
burden of proof.

A century earlier, Al-Nahhas [71] wrote one of the earliest, highly regarded
references on abrogation. As he discussed different abrogation claims, approv-
ing some and objecting to others, he addressed the burden of proof to be
applied. In one quote, he states "What has the possibility of not being abro-
gation cannot be said to be abrogating or abrogated except with evidentiary
proof that mandates concession to it (YJ pds) ay a53)."

Prominent scholar Ibn Taymia [172] has a similar view. He dismissed
the possibility that a particular ruling has been abrogated saying "because
abrogation is not to be resorted to except with certainty (-,4, \)." In this
case, the object of abrogation was not at the level of a Quranic verse, yet
certainty was the standard he required for invoking abrogation. All the more
reason to apply this standard when dealing with the abrogation of a Quranic
verse.

Modern scholars have also weighed in on the burden of proof. Al-Qaradawi
[75], who is pro-abrogation but critical of the excessive use of the Abrogation
Doctrine, addresses the burden of proof. He says "One of the pitfalls to men-
tion here regarding the understanding of the Quran and its exegesis is the
claim of abrogation of any of its verses, without a proof of certitude (gk,
_sst) that necessitates such abrogation." Another pro-abrogation scholar, Al-

Salih [85], put it in different words as he argued that non-abrogation should be
the original assumption "unless an explicit evidence (ee we jJo) of abrogation
is established, then there is no escape from taking it."

point to ponder

Certainty is a pretty high standard; has this standard been actually
applied to abrogation claims? We will leave this question for the
reader to decide, claim by claim.

Coming from recognized scholars who are on the side of the Abrogation
Doctrine, the above quotes attest to the high burden of proof that must be
met to claim that a given verse in the Quran is abrogated. Let us now look at

2. THE BURDEN OF PROOF 2.2. IRRECONCILABLE CONFLICT

the methods that pro-abrogation scholars used to prove these claims in order
to see how the burden of proof is applied.

There are two specific methods that scholars use in arguing an abrogation
claim: (a) showing irreconcilable conflict that necessitates abrogation, and (b)
citing authoritative narrations that support the claim. We will discuss these
methods in the next two sections and see how the burden of proof manifests
itself in each of them.

2.2 Irreconcilable Conflict

The first method of proving an abrogation claim is to argue that the verses
in question present an irreconcilable conflict that can only be resolved by
invoking abrogation. Every abrogation claim goes through arguments and
counter-arguments about such conflict. However, the burden of proof is on
those who argue that there is a conflict that cannot be reconciled, and scholars
have specifically articulated how high that burden is.

A case in point is Zeid [206], the most recognized modern scholar of abro-
gation who studied the opinions of pro-abrogation scholars old and new. His
conclusion in the case of conflict-based abrogation is that unless each side of
the conflict is "an opposite to the other and cannot coexist with it" (=U is

dna doo ol ose), there is no place for abrogation. In another passage, he
articulates as a condition for abrogation that the two rulings set by the verses
"cannot be combined and acted upon jointly in some facet (o5>5)\ cy 4-»),"
citing a number of respected pro-abrogation scholars as concurring with him.
For instance, Al-Amidi [18] includes as a prerequisite for a text to abrogate
another that the two texts "conflict with each other in every facet" (lLeyley ol

ay JS oy).

point of interest

What is the standard for declaring 'conflict in every facet'? Al-
Shafei [93], a scholarly leader who founded one of the main schools
of thought in Islamic jurisprudence, set a formidable standard that
"the two narrations have nothing but difference" (glx4>J\ xy o
si 'Y\) exemplifying that with the switch in the direction of
prayers from Jerusalem to Mecca. It is an example of two rulings
that cannot be reconciled to any middle ground by any logic.

We have already quoted Al-Nahhas about the high burden of proof for
individual claims. In another quote (Al-Nahhas [71}), he articulates the burden
in terms of conflict reconciliation. He states that "abrogation is only invoked

2. THE BURDEN OF PROOF 2.2. IRRECONCILABLE CONFLICT

where the meaning cannot be correct without it (4 'Y\ (gael a Y)" as he
cites possible interpretations of a verse that refute its abrogation claim.

Other scholars agree in strong terms. Al-Zurqani, who is pro-abrogation,
states that the conflict in question has to be "a real conflict with no way of
avoiding it by reconciling the two through any facet of interpretation (45 <s\

a sls! ogy ce)" (Al-Zurqani [128]). Farghali, who is also pro-abrogation, asserts
that a claim of abrogation cannot be made unless there is no reconciliation of
the conflict "from any view and with any interpretation" (hss shy Bygne sh)
after approvingly citing similar burden-of-proof statements by earlier scholars
(Farghali [136]).

What this means is that, in choosing between a possible interpretation that
substantiates the conflict versus a possible interpretation that reconciles the
conflict, we do not just choose the more plausible of the two interpretations.
We take the side of reconciliation. Indeed, "employing both pieces of evidence
has priority over relegating one of them" (lasi>\ Jlaal oy oil cad! SLsl)
which is an established juristic rule (e.g., Al-Isnawi [52|) that illustrates how
the burden of proof gives reconciliation the priority.

point to ponder

Prominent scholar Ibn Taymia has an interesting angle on per-
ceived conflicts between verses. Discussing some abrogation
claims, he commented that what is abrogated is not the verse,
but what someone thinks the verse means (Ibn Taymia |172]).

A case in point in reconciliation is an abrogation claim that gained traction
for a while before being dismissed by a number of scholars based on a possible
reconciliation argument. The Quran says in verse 3:102 "watch out for God as
He ought to be watched" [\-6: Ol ae JI] .. als 3S $5 al dio| | 4251 .. . &, and : says
in verse 64:16 "So watch out for God as much as you can' | Sabiel le ay eal pe 2515 ®

[\1: opel] € .... On face value, there is a conflict between the two commands,
with the second command being less strict than the first. This was the basis
for the claim that the second verse abrogated the first.

The conflict results from a possible interpretation of the verses, but there is
another interpretation put forward by the scholars who reject the abrogation
claim.' They argue, with evidence from the Quran itself, that God never asks
us to do what is beyond our capacity, so for us 'as He ought to be watched' is
synonymous with 'as much as you can'. While you may find the interpretation
as a conflict more convincing than this reconciliation, the latter is a viable
interpretation based on Quranic principles. Because of the burden of proof,
that was enough for a majority of scholars to dismiss this abrogation claim.

1 The claim will be discussed in detail in §3.4.

2. THE BURDEN OF PROOF 2.3. AUTHORITATIVE NARRATION

2.3 Authoritative Narration

The second method of proving an abrogation claim is to cite an authoritative
narration that directly supports the claim. This is a manifestation of the
conveyance (alnaql - \&)\) approach to jurisprudence which bases its rulings
on statements by authoritative figures, as opposed to inferring the rulings
through reasoning (al'aql, literally "the mind" - és). By the very nature of
religion, conveyance from the Quran and from the Prophet (PBUH) is of course
the fundamental source of jurisprudence in Islam. Conveyance from other key
figures is also taken very seriously.

The narrations we are addressing here are narrations that make a direct
statement about a Quranic verse being abrogated. These narrations come
from fellows of the Prophet (PBUH), most often from Ibn Abbas (RA), and are
often cited as corroborating evidence to support an abrogation claim.

Once again, there is no 'direct evidence' for any abrogation claim in terms
of authentic Prophetic narrations or Quranic statements that explicitly des-
ignate a verse in the Quran as abrogated (Asad [130}).2 However, the nar-
rations from the fellows of the Prophet (PBUH) are taken quite seriously since
those fellows have the advantage of proximity to events during the life of the
Prophet (PBUH), and can shed light on the interpretation of Quranic verses and
Prophetic traditions that are associated with those events.

Nonetheless, the level of authority of narrations from the fellows of the
Prophet (PBUH) is a matter of debate among scholars. Since we are now dis-
cussing the burden of proof rather than the merits of the case, we are going
to focus on two objective questions about these narrations that relate to the
burden of proof.

1. How certain do we need to be that the narration is authentic?

2. How certain do we need to be about the meaning of the narration?

These questions are independent of the authority of the person who is being
quoted. In simple words, we are asking "did he actually say that?" and "are
we sure about what he meant?" Using technical terminology, the first question
deals with uncertainty in sourcing and the second question deals with uncer-
tainty in significance, two terms coined by Islamic jurists of old, and adopted
by all subsequent generations of scholars. Let us discuss these uncertainties in
detail and weigh them against the burden of proof for individual abrogation
claims.

?In the extensive literature we surveyed, no scholar has challenged this specific statement.
Also see side note 3.

2. THE BURDEN OF PROOF 2.3. AUTHORITATIVE NARRATION

2.3.1 Uncertainty in Sourcing

Islamic jurists have a term for thinly sourced narrations, i.e., narrations that
have been conveyed to us through only one or two sources.? They call them
singles (aahad - >\~1). In terms of reliability, 'singles' are universally considered
"uncertain in sourcing" (4)5)\ b).4 This classification is in contrast with the

"certain in sourcing" (24)5)\ i) classification, enjoyed by all verses in the
Quran for example. :

Statements asserting that narrations of 'singles' are uncertain in sourcing
can be found in almost any book on Islamic Foundations of Deduction (Squel
aaa!). For example, Khallaf [183] contrasts the certainty level of different
types of narrations, stating that 'singles' are uncertain in sourcing. When
these books discuss uncertainty in sourcing, they usually address narrations
that quote the Prophet (PBUH) rather than narrations that quote other figures.
Since the discussion here is only about sourcing, what matters to us is who
narrated the quote rather than who is being quoted.

It does stand to logic that a 'singles' narration would not be certain be-
cause of the possibility of "error and forgetfulness, even while trusting (the
narrators)" as Al-Suyuti [101] puts it while he weighs different views about
the reliability of 'singles'. While this quote was about 'singles' narrations in
general and not abrogation, Al-'Suyuti happens to be a major pro-abrogation
scholar who is among the most cited on the subject. His quote doesn't mean
that all 'singles' narrations are to be ignored. In fact, these narrations are
a major source in Islamic jurisprudence. Only their role in proving an abro-
gation claim is being addressed here.

Here is an example. Prominent pro-abrogation scholar Ibn Al-Arabi [144]
states that "reports of 'singles' do not abrogate the Quran" in the context of
a narration that suggests abrogation of a verse. This is particularly notable
since the narration in question quotes two people including Aisha (RA), the
wife of the Prophet (PBUH).

Almost all narrations by the fellows of the Prophet (PBUH) that support
an individual abrogation claim are 'singles', as shown in Appendix A.3. Some
of these are more reliable than others in terms of the chain of narrators that
reported them, but they are still 'singles', hence uncertain in sourcing.

The uncertainty of 'singles' is reflected in quotes by pro-abrogation schol-
ars. For instance, Al-Jassas [56], who is considered one of the founders of the
Abrogation Doctrine, concludes that "abrogating a Quranic ruling ... using

3Some scholars consider a narration thinly sourced even if it has more than 2 sources.
However, we are taking the conservative view here to be on the safe side.

4A more direct translation would be 'suspicious' rather than 'uncertain', but 'suspicious'
has a stronger connotation of doubt than the Arabic adjective bears. The verb form 'I

suspect', however, would be a perfect translation of the Arabic counterpart «bl

2. THE BURDEN OF PROOF 2.3. AUTHORITATIVE NARRATION

the report of a 'single' is not allowed".° Pro-abrogation scholar and prolific
exegete Makki [184] states that "it is forbidden to abrogate the Quran with
a 'singles' report" (s-N\ joe ol wl oan &*)- Al-Baydawi [30] makes a similar

statement, reasoning that "the decisive is not set aside by suspicion" (Y abla
oll 34).

Some scholars have stated that there is unanimity about this issue. Al-
Juwaini [59] asserts that "scholars are unanimous that what is established with

certainty would not be abrogated by something uncertain (423 'Y (als cult
os), so the Quran would not be abrogated by a report narrated by 'singles'"
The same conclusion is reached by Al-Shatibi [95] who states that "investiga-
tors are unanimous that the report of a single does not abrogate the Quran

(gl al ome Y sell +)". Al-Shatibi elaborates the reason for that; "because it

would eliminate the certain using the uncertain (gpbell 4 ¢sbeiel 25) ". This
conclusion is universally acknowledged by pro- and anti-abrogation scholars
alike.®

We note that the above quotes address two different types of narration.
The first type is a narration that supports an abrogation claim, such as that
addressed by Ibn Al-Arabi. The second type is about a Prophetic narration
that is itself claimed to abrogate a verse." However, both types are included
here insofar as they establish how uncertainty in sourcing measures up in the
context of abrogating a Quranic verse. These quotes are about sourcing only,
as they address 'singles' narration independently of who is quoted or what the
quote says. Sourcing is the only point we are addressing here.

point of interest

Among the narrations by the fellows of the Prophet (PBUH), how
many are certain in sourcing that support an abrogation claim?
As detailed in Appendix A.3, even if we adopt the weakest stan-
dard for certainty that is set by the scholars, only two out of 83
narrations are.

2.3.2 Uncertainty in Significance

Even if the sourcing of a narration is certain, and the authority of the person
who is quoted in the narration is not in dispute, there is still the question
of what the wording of the narration actually implies. A narration is con-

5In Islamic juristic literature, "report of a single" is synonymous with "singles narration"
(Khallaf [183]).

6We discuss a subtle point about the impact of sourcing on abrogation in side note 9.

7The notion that a Prophetic narration can abrogate a Quranic verse is controversial,
and will be discussed in Appendix A.7.

2. THE BURDEN OF PROOF 2.3. AUTHORITATIVE NARRATION

sidered "uncertain in significance" (aY SSI ab) if the implied meaning is in
doubt. Whether a particular narration has this uncertainty (as opposed to
being "certain in significance" - aN is) is something that can be argued
on a case-by-case basis.

However, for narrations that use the word naskh, there is a common source
of uncertainty in significance. The uncertainty comes from the use of the word
naskh by early Muslims to mean things other than abrogation. Since this is
a recurring issue in narrations about abrogation, we discuss the issue here
and underline the resulting uncertainty with scholarly quotes, again from the
pro-abrogation side.

Indeed, narrations that involve the word naskh are not necessarily talk-
ing about abrogation. We alluded to this semantic ambiguity on page 5.
The ambiguity created flexibility for early Muslims to use the word naskh in
describing different relationships between the rulings of two verses, such as
making an exception to a ruling or putting a qualifying condition on it. There
is overwhelming evidence that this ambiguity was prevalent at the time most
of the key abrogation narrations originated, and that led to this ambiguity
being recognized by the major pro-abrogation scholars. Here are some of their
quotes.

Zeid spent more than 40 pages of his book surveying and analyzing the
linguistic evolution of the word naskh over Islamic history. He concluded that
narrations that use the word naskh in the broader sense of the word cannot
be used to prove abrogation claims which are based on a narrower definition
of the word. He gave an example (Zeid [206]):

"..it is not of scholarly fidelity at all to quote a narration by Ibn Ab-
bas (RA) - or anyone else - in which he states that a verse did naskh
to another although there is no relation between the two verses
other than one being an exception from the other, then use that
to deduce the naskh of one verse by the other in the sense that has
later become the conventional definition of abrogation."

Other pro-abrogation scholars concur. Based on diligent reading® of narra-
tions from the fellows of the Prophet (PBUH) and from later followers, Waliyul-
lah [203] lists different ways in which the word naskh has been employed in
these narrations. His list includes specializing a general ruling, pointing to
a meaning that was not apparent, or correcting a misunderstanding. Speak-
ing about earlier Muslims, he laments that "their scope of abrogation got

broader" (pate cel Blo eSs5l) which resulted in hundreds of abrogation
claims.

8This means a careful survey of the literature (c\,a'Y!), formally defined as "reading of
parts and ruling based on them about a whole that includes them" (Zuhair [207]).

2. THE BURDEN OF PROOF 2.3. AUTHORITATIVE NARRATION

Al-Shatibi [95] provides his own list of meanings for which early Muslims
used the word naskh. His list includes restricting the absolute, elucidating the
ambiguous, and specializing the general.

In his famous book, Ibn Taymia [172] also agrees, saying "the decisive state-
ment is that the word naskh is cursory, as the predecessors used it in what is
thought the verse implies, whether it is generality, absoluteness, or something

else (2U3 ri Jb) ri apae)." In another spot, he mentions "specializing the

general and restricting the absolute" (gles sntiy alll venesi) as examples of
meanings of naskh as used by the predecessors (Ibn Taymia [172]).

Early in his book, Ibn Al-Qayyim [150] contrasts the meanings of naskh
used by different generations of Islamic scholars. He starts by stating that the
later generations use the word to describe "lifting the ruling in its entirety"

(Case ee 25): He enumerates the meanings used by the older generations,
including the use of naskh to mean exception, description, and conditioning;
saying that "if you look carefully at what they said, you find uncountable
instances (a4 Y ») of it." Al-Qurtubi [80], a staunch pro-abrogation scholar,
states in his famous exegesis of the Quran that "early Muslims call specializa-
tion naskh using a broader sense [of the word] and as a figure of speech (aaa

Vjlexag) ™

None of these alternative meanings constitutes actual abrogation, i.e., an-
nulment of what is claimed to be abrogated. Therefore, every time the word
naskh appears in a narration that supports an abrogation claim, it should be
assessed carefully for the potential uncertainty in significance.

point of interest

Worth repeating: Narrations that involve the word naskh are not
necessarily talking about abrogation.

Let us recap what we have established so far in this chapter. Person A
makes a claim that a particular verse in the Quranic script is abrogated. Per-
son B asserts that it is not abrogated. Under this scenario, A has an obligation
to prove that his claim is valid in a way that rises to the level of certainty. B
only needs to show that A has failed to meet that obligation.

The obligation applies whether the evidence is conflict-based or narration-
based. If the evidence presented does not rise to the level of certainty needed to
abrogate a Quranic verse, the abrogation claim must be rejected. This burden
of proof is stipulated by pro- and anti-abrogation scholars alike. We will refer
to this burden when we discuss individual abrogation claims in Part IJ, so let
us pinpoint the highlights of the burden.

2. THE BURDEN OF PROOF 2.4. BURDEN FOR THE GENERAL DOCTRINE

Burden of Proof for every Abrogation Claim:

The burden to prove that a given verse in the Quranic script is abro-
gated rests solely on the claimant of abrogation. Even pro-abrogation
scholars have conceded that this burden of proof rises to the level of
certainty. To refute an abrogation claim, all one needs to do is to show
that this high burden of proof has not been met. In particular,

e To refute a conflict-based abrogation claim, all it takes is to
present a viable way to reconcile the perceived conflict between
the verses. It is not necessary to show that such reconciliation
is more plausible than the irreconcilability arguments.

e To refute a narration-based abrogation claim, both the uncer-
tainty in sourcing and the uncertainty in significance of the nar-
ration should be weighed against the certainty of a Quranic verse.

2.4 Burden for the General Doctrine

So far in this chapter, we have addressed the high burden of proof for individual
abrogation claims. Both sides of the abrogation debate agree to that burden,
thus establishing it as the uncontested standard for the debate. However, this
applies only to individual claims that a specific Quranic verse is abrogated,
not to the Abrogation Doctrine in general, namely to the principle that verses
in the Quranic script could be abrogated.

Neither side of the abrogation debate explicitly addressed the burden of
proof for the general doctrine in the literature we surveyed. Certainly, neither
side conceded that the burden of proof is on them like the pro-abrogation side
did in the case of individual abrogation claims. Each side argued forcefully
that their case was compelling, but without touching on the question of burden
of proof.

In the absence of a clear burden of proof for the general doctrine, the
burden for individual claims can help clarify the situation. The two burdens
are not the same, but they are related in the following sense. If a single
abrogation claim was successfully proved, this would validate the Abrogation
Doctrine as a whole even if all other claims were disproved. Similarly, if all
individual abrogation claims failed to overcome their agreed burden of proof,
that would render the Abrogation Doctrine moot as no one would be able to
set aside any verse in the Quran by claiming that it is abrogated.

Given the large number of abrogation claims, it may seem improbable that
all of them can be shown to be invalid. However, the vast majority of these

ile

2. THE BURDEN OF PROOF 2.4. BURDEN FOR THE GENERAL DOCTRINE

claims were based on weak arguments that are easily debunked, a fact that is
recognized by pro- and anti-abrogation scholars alike. The number of claims
with any merit is quite limited as we will see in Part II.

By exhaustively debating all individual abrogation claims, one by one, we
have a way of settling the question of the general Abrogation Doctrine using
the rules that were established for debating individual claims. Debating the
claims is also a less polarizing approach. Each abrogation claim has been
discussed by different scholars with less fervor than the general doctrine has,
and each has supporters and opponents even among advocates of the doctrine.

If we refute the Abrogation Doctrine by refuting all abrogation claims, this
does not mean that other evidence about the doctrine can be ignored. That
evidence raises legitimate questions that need to be resolved. For instance,
why was abrogation mentioned in the Quran in the first place if there are no
abrogated verses? Also, how could so many respected pro-abrogation scholars
all reach the wrong conclusion? These key questions will be addressed in detail
in Part [II. To summarize,

Burden of Proof for the general Abrogation Doctrine:

Unlike the case of individual abrogation claims, the burden of proof
for the Abrogation Doctrine at large has not been stipulated by the
two sides of the debate. However, there is a way to use the burden of
proof for individual abrogation claims as a vehicle to settle the case
for the general doctrine:

e Ifa single abrogation claim is proved, this automatically proves
the Abrogation Doctrine.

e If all abrogation claims are refuted, this automatically renders
the Abrogation Doctrine moot.

e Ifthe Abrogation Doctrine is rendered moot by refuting all ab-
rogation claims, that would call for an examination of the argu-
ments that support the doctrine in light of these findings.

u~")

The burden of proof for individual abrogation claims that we established
in this chapter, as well as its role in debating the Abrogation Doctrine as
a whole, delineate the methodology that we will use in the rest of the book.
In the next chapter, we address this methodology in detail.

Chapter 3

The Methodology

Now that the burden of proof has been established, we move on to defining
the methodology that uses this burden of proof to argue the case for and
against abrogation. As we have seen, there are two distinct but complementary
components to the abrogation debate; arguing for and against the Abrogation
Doctrine in general, and arguing for and against individual abrogation claims.
The methodology spells out how these two components will be handled.

We will start by presenting the overall methodology in the first section.
Then, we will go into the implementation details in the rest of the chapter.
These details pertain to how the different abrogation claims will be debated
in Part I] before we move to debating the Abrogation Doctrine as a whole in
Part LI.

3.1 Overall Methodology

In debating the case for and against the Abrogation Doctrine, we will address
individual abrogation claims before we address the general doctrine. There
is a reason for this approach. The burden of proof for individual claims is
one of the rare points of agreement between pro- and anti-abrogation scholars
alike as we have seen in Chapter 2. This sets a clear criterion for weighing
the arguments for and against each abrogation claim. In light of the findings
about individual abrogation claims, we can then discuss the general Abroga-
tion Doctrine from a solid ground.

Other authors have adopted this approach of debating the abrogation
claims directly, e.g., Al-Khodari [65] and Al-Ghali [43]. The approach has
an advantage of clarity; each abrogation claim is its own focused case. The

3. THE METHODOLOGY 3.1. OVERALL METHODOLOGY

evidence for and against an individual claim is easier to scrutinize, and the
criterion for weighing the evidence is agreed upon per the burden of proof.
Individual claims are also less polarizing than the debate about the overall
Abrogation Doctrine. Each claim has its proponents and opponents, and there
has been less fervor in disagreement about any individual claim.

Starting with individual abrogation claims can be cast in terms of the two
'stages' of belief in abrogation that are often mentioned in the literature. The
first stage is that abrogation is conceptually possible (is jl-), meaning that
it does not contradict any basic tenet of the faith. The second stage is that
abrogation actually occurred Ce ely)

Individual abrogation claims belong to the second stage, the actual occur-
rence of abrogation. It is also the stage that establishes the Abrogation Doc-
trine since the doctrine asserts that there are abrogated verses in the Quranic
script. M. Al-Ghazali [46] emphasizes this point by advocating "actual tal-
lying" of abrogation claims rather than "theoretical debate" about whether
abrogation has occurred.

The tallying of abrogation claims has led to highly varying results across
the literature. Some scholars approved hundreds of claims, and others ap-
proved very few claims. Hasaballah [139], a respected modern scholar,! ended
up approving only one abrogation claim and was equivocal about two others.

It is a matter of historical record that there is not a single abrogation claim
that is supported by all pro-abrogation scholars," a notable fact that is not
highlighted in the literature;

Key Point

y Collectively (but not individually), pro-abrogation scholars have
dismissed all abrogation claims.

This brings us to the transition from discussing individual abrogation
claims to discussing the Abrogation Doctrine as a whole. In Chapter 2, we
showed how the transition would be clear-cut. If a single abrogation claim was
proved, this would prove the validity of the Abrogation Doctrine as a whole.
If, on the other hand, all abrogation claims were refuted, the doctrine's core as-
sertion that "there are verses in the Quranic script that have been abrogated"
would be voided.

1 Hasaballah was on the Ph.D. examination committee of Zeid's seminal dissertation about
abrogation, and was one of 3 scholars reverently acknowledged by him (Zeid [206]).

? As we detail in side note 5, if you consider just four pro-abrogation scholars: Waliyullah
[203], Zeid [206], Al-Nahhas [71], and Al-Isnawi [52], there are no abrogation claims that
they all approve.

3. THE METHODOLOGY 3.1. OVERALL METHODOLOGY

In practice, however, the transition is more complex in the case where
none of the abrogation claims is proved. There is other evidence, outside of
individual abrogation claims, that scholars use to substantiate their belief in
the Abrogation Doctrine. The evidence includes Quranic passages that talk
about abrogation. If all abrogation claims are refuted, how do we come to
terms with the rest of this evidence? Part III in this book presents a compre-
hensive treatment of this question.

In summary, the backbone of our methodology will be the validation or
refutation of individual abrogation claims, one at a time. Before we delve
into the implementation details of this methodology, we find it necessary to
address two general observations about the abrogation debate, namely bias
and conflation. These observations impact our discussion of the individual
abrogation claims and the Abrogation Doctrine as a whole.

3.1.1 Bias and Conflation

When a weighty subject like abrogation is debated, it is natural for both sides
to be biased toward their viewpoint. Sometimes, this bias affects how they
present their case. Some may avoid evidence that would undermine their case,
and some may present conflated evidence that does not stand to scrutiny.
While we will strive to avoid these pitfalls, some aspects of bias and conflation
are worth highlighting.

e Bias. There are two aspects where our presentation may appear to have
a bias. The first is when we present a refutation of an abrogation claim based
on reconciling the two verses in the claim. In doing that, we will be citing
and elaborating the interpretations that reconcile the verses, but not as much
the interpretations that substantiate a conflict. There is a specific reason for
selectivity in this case: the burden of proof is not symmetric as we established
in Chapter 2;

Key Point

y The agreed burden of proof means that viable interpretations
that reconcile a conflict are sufficient to refute an abrogation
claim, while viable interpretations that substantiate the conflict are
not sufficient to validate the claim.

Therefore, we will focus on the reconciling side of the argument in our method-
ology.

The second aspect where our presentation may appear to have a bias is

3. THE METHODOLOGY 3.1. OVERALL METHODOLOGY

when we quote the opinions of different scholars about individual abrogation
claims. Scholarly opinions about a claim are 'expert testimony' type of evi-
dence. Such evidence is not sufficient to prove or disprove the claim; it only
raises doubt about the other side of the argument. Doubt, as it turns out,
plays different roles in validating or refuting an abrogation claim. Why is
that?

Once more, the reason is that the burden of proof is not symmetric. Rea-
sonable doubt is sufficient to refute a claim, but not sufficient to validate it.
Therefore, we may quote a scholar when he opposes a given claim, even though
he supports other claims. It is not that we consider the same scholar to be
right when he opposes a claim, and wrong when he supports it. Rather, his
opposition may affect the conclusion whereas his support does not.

This lopsided treatment is not a manifestation of bias, but rather a con-
sequence of the burden of proof, a burden that is sanctioned by the pro-
abrogation scholars themselves. This observation will figure prominently in
Part I] where we discuss individual abrogation claims since the burden of
proof applies to them. The next observation about conflation relates to Part
III where we discuss the Abrogation Doctrine as a whole.

e Conflation. When we defined the Abrogation Doctrine in §1.3, we em-
phasized the fact that its scope is limited to abrogated verses in the Quranic
script. We also pointed out that this type of abrogation is but one part of
a wider theological debate about abrogation in general.

The discussion of whether abrogation has occurred sometimes mixes differ-
ent types. In particular, statements that establish that other types of abroga-
tion have occurred are sometimes treated as if they were proof of abrogation
of verses within the Quranic script. Here are some examples of this kind of
conflation.

We already saw an example of a Prophetic narration that lifted the prohi-
bition of visiting the graves. However, this is not relevant to the Abrogation
Doctrine because that prohibition had been enacted by the Prophet (PBUH)
and not through a Quranic verse. Therefore, this does not prove or disprove
that Quranic verses have been abrogated.

We also saw an example of abrogation that took place between different
scriptures, where Jesus (PBUH) allowed things that had been forbidden before
him. More generally, the consensus of scholars? is that the Bible was abrogated
by the Quran. However, this is not relevant to the Abrogation Doctrine (Nada
{190]). Whether previous scriptures were abrogated does not prove or disprove
that Quranic verses have been abrogated.

There is also clear evidence that Quranic verses abrogated practices that

3Some scholars consider the Bible abrogated only in part, as we will discuss in §9.3.2.

3. THE METHODOLOGY 3.2. SORTING OUT ABROGATION CLAIMS

preceded them that were not mandated through the Quran itself. A famous
example is Verse 2:144 which mandates that Muslims face the Sacrosanct
Mosque in Mecca in their prayers.

Before that verse was revealed, Muslims faced Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem
when they prayed. That was not because of Quranic instruction, but rather by
example of what the Prophet (PBUH) did. Therefore, this case did not involve
abrogating a Quranic verse, so it is not relevant to the Abrogation Doctrine.
Whether Quranic verses abrogated rulings outside the Quran does not prove
or disprove that Quranic verses themselves have been abrogated.

Another type of abrogation, which is mentioned in narrations that are
uncertain in sourcing (Appendix A.7.1), involves previously revealed verses
that were allegedly abrogated and eliminated from the Quran altogether.*
Whether these verses existed has no imprint in the Quranic script as the
Prophet (PBUH) left it for us, so they do not prove or disprove the Abrogation
Doctrine. The doctrine is only concerned with verses "between the two covers

of the Quranic script" (Cie! ogo oa)

The conflation of different notions does a disservice to scholarship, creating
ambiguous statements and opening the door for unfounded conclusions. When
we discuss the Abrogation Doctrine, which we do as the exclusive topic of this
book, the evidence should be about that doctrine, not about any other type
of abrogation.

3.2 Sorting out Abrogation Claims

In this section, we start discussing the implementation details of our method-
ology. These details pertain to how the different abrogation claims will be
debated in Part II. There are hundreds of abrogation claims in the literature
(see Appendix A.2). They can be divided into different groups according to
their fame, merit, subject matter, or other criteria.

We divided the claims mainly according to their fame, which is measured
by their prominence in the literature and the number of scholars who discussed
them. Famous claims in general have merit that warrants detailed discussion,
but their levels of merit are not uniform. In our view, some less famous claims
have more merit than some famous ones.

The most famous claims will be discussed starting from this chapter and
in Chapters 4, 5, and 6. These claims include the 'big 3' which are the three
most supported claims in the abrogation literature. They also include the

4These are categorized as cases of "abrogation of ruling and recitation" or "abrogation
of the recitation, but not the ruling" in the abrogation literature. The Abrogation Doctrine
itself deals with "abrogation of the ruling, but not the recitation" as we discussed in §1.5.

3. THE METHODOLOGY 3.2. SORTING OUT ABROGATION CLAIMS

"sword verse" claims which impact hundreds of verses but have been largely
dismissed in the literature for centuries now. Al-Suyuti's list of 20 widely
referenced claims is also included.

Among all 432 abrogation claims in the literature we surveyed, we identified
10 claims that warrant the most detailed and judicious discussion. We will
address these 10 claims first, each in its own section from §3.4 through §6.1.

For each of the 10 claims, we will go through the evidence and the argu-
ments for and against it in detail. We will focus on specific arguments that
reconcile the perceived conflict, and we will cite the opinions of scholars about
the claim. As an example, we will illustrate this methodology by debating one
famous claim in complete detail in §3.4 later in this chapter.

The next group of abrogation claims have less merit, and they are covered
in §6.2 through §7.8. These claims cover a wide variety of topics, from fighting,
to foods, to marriage, to criminal law, to forgivable sins.

After that, we are left with weaker claims, which are the vast majority of
abrogation claims found in the literature we surveyed. Chapter 8 covers all of
them. Most of them can be summarily dismissed because they violate what
pro-abrogation scholars have called conditions for abrogation (Gel by ps).
These conditions are applicable in so many abrogation claims that we opted
to organize them as 'validation rules' that we establish in the next section §3.3,
and then cite repeatedly as we address various abrogation claims throughout
the book.

Finally, among weaker claims, there are numerous frivolous claims that are
included in §8.3 just for completeness. There is no reason in these claims to
consider abrogation. Some of them did not even cite an abrogating verse (Ibn
Al-Jawzi [147]), and some did not cite a rationale for the claim. Some use
labored methods such as breaking up a sentence to claim abrogation. Here is
an example mentioned by Ibn Salama [170] about this Quranic passage:

2158 SELEN Ihe; ial gl YL @ OS gl aids 4 b
rt: pall { ASI \yols i353 een

[103:2-3] Indeed, mankind is lingering in a loss e except those who
have faith, do righteous deeds, counsel each other with the truth, and
counsel each other with patience.

He claimed that the second part that specifies the exception abrogated the
first part, notwithstanding that it is a simple exception made within the same
sentence.

Scholars often didn't bother discussing frivolous claims, and sometimes
mockingly dismissed them. For example, Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] addressed such

3. THE METHODOLOGY 3.3. RULE-BASED METHODOLOGY

claims by saying "I avoided mentioning verses that were claimed abrogated in
writings that do not accomplish other than wasting time most excessively."

In the next two sections, we go into the implementation details of the
methodology as it applies to different types of claims. First, we will articulate
the rules that can be quickly applied to dismiss weak claims. Then, we will
demonstrate the discussion template that will be used in debating meritorious
claims.

3.3. Rule-Based Methodology

The main reason for having a rule-based methodology in the abrogation debate
is that, outside of the limited number of meritorious claims, the majority of
abrogation claims can be refuted in a straightforward manner. These claims
naturally fall into a small number of categories. All the claims within each
category can be refuted using essentially the same argument.

Addressing a category of abrogation claims en masse is not a novel ap-
proach. Pro-abrogation scholars themselves have developed tools for that.
They set conditions that abrogation claims cannot violate (Gel by,5), and
used these conditions to dismiss whole categories of claims (Ibn Al-Jawzi [147]
and Zeid [206], among others).°

We will refer to these conditions as validation rules. Their main utility is
to avoid repetition when we discuss weaker claims that are similar. We can
just invoke the relevant validation rule in each case instead of repeating the
same argument. The rules will also be used as a shorthand for explaining the
opinions of different scholars when they refute a claim.

Roughly speaking, validation rules fall into two categories, some are based
on reconciliation and some are based on principle. The rules based on recon-
ciliation identify typical ways where a conflict between two verses is perceived
when in fact the verses complement, rather than annul, each other. The rules
based on principle reflect violations of fundamental theological principles that
the abrogation claim would entail. We will give examples of Quranic verses
for each rule.

The legitimacy of the rules based on reconciliation is a direct consequence of
the 'irreconcilable conflict' requirement on abrogation claims that we discussed
in §2.2. In that section, we quoted the scholars who support this requirement,
so we will not repeat the quotes here. We will, however, quote scholars who
support the rules based on principle, since those present new concepts that we
have not yet covered.

5Some of the conditions have less support from pro-abrogation scholars, so they will not
be mentioned here or used for refutation to be on the safe side.

3. THE METHODOLOGY 3.3. RULE-BASED METHODOLOGY

3.3.1 Rules Based on Reconciliation

All abrogation claims have an element of perceived conflict that the claimant
could not reconcile. In many of these claims, reconciliation is possible and
sometimes straightforward. Reconciliation has priority over conflict because
of the burden of proof (§2.2). While reconcilability depends on the specifics of
the verses in question, certain themes of obvious reconcilability recur in many
abrogation claims and can be articulated as litmus tests that can immediately
refute the claims. Here is the first one.

Rule 1 : Elaboration
If one verse is an elaboration of the other verse, that is not abrogation.

This validation rule is an antidote to the conflation of the broad meaning
of the word naskh with the strict definition of abrogation,® which resulted
in scores of abrogation claims. The rule is phrased in different ways by pro-
abrogation scholars, e.g., Waliyullah [203], and it covers a lot of territory. An
example of the methods for elaboration of text (gk! ils) is detailing a brief
(erro! Jedi). Another example is specifying a generality (eld) 2.253) by
specifying to whom it does not apply (exception - ¢lé.'Y!), when or where
it may not be followed (license - 42+ Jl), or itemizing options for doing it
(alternatives - \4J)). The following two verses provide an illustration.

a4
2 Z

\2 SNe SE eb EE Pope Fareunce >
[sv : spl € 6,255 35 21d) 25 35 2 5 al fe

[24:27] O you who have believed, do not enter houses other than
your own houses until you ascertain welcome and greet their inhabi-
tants. That is best for you, so that hopefully you remember.

which talks about the etiquette of entering other people's homes, was claimed
to be abrogated by a subsequent verse

ee? 5 gdb Wey 5 yhth Ve 18s thy
[24:29] There is no blame upon you for entering houses that are

not inhabited, in which there is utility for you. And God knows what
you reveal and what you conceal.

®Some elaboration methods were referred to as 'partial abrogation' (Se ae) by the
Abu-Hanifa school of thought (Zeid {206]).

3. THE METHODOLOGY 3.3. RULE-BASED METHODOLOGY

This is an obvious case where the elaboration rule applies. If a home has been
abandoned, there is no longer a requirement to ask for permission to enter if
the need arises. This elaborates the command in the first verse by making
a logical exception to the requirement of asking for permission. It does not
mean that the mandate of the first verse is gone; we still have to ask permission
before we enter any home that is not abandoned. As you would expect, the
majority of scholars agree with this reasoning, rejecting the abrogation claim.

'You can see from this example the reason elaboration is not abrogation; it
is because the elaborated ruling is not annulled. It is detailed, explained, spec-
ified, etc., but it still contributes to the overall ruling which is now comprised
of the union of the two verses.

Despite this obvious fact, many scholars made abrogation claims where
it is clear that one verse just elaborates another. As we discussed in §2.3.2,
these scholars were probably using the broader meanings of the word naskh,
not abrogation per se. We are only addressing abrogation in this book (see
the definition of the Abrogation Doctrine on page 6), so any claim that does
not involve actual abrogation is of no concern to this book.

The next validation rule is an obvious one. Nonetheless, some of the claims
that it refutes have gained traction in the literature.

Rule 2 : Sameness
If the two verses speak of two different subjects, circumstances, or people,
that is not abrogation.

There is no conflict between such verses. Their rulings are either distinct,
where the subjects are unrelated, or complementary, where the subjects are
related but dealt with differently. However, there is a surprising number of
abrogation claims that fail such a simple rule, making it necessary to include it
as an explicit rule. Scholars have used this rule in refuting abrogation claims,
e.g., Waliyullah [203], without formally stating it as a rule, perhaps because
it is so obvious. Here is an example. The verse,

[oe OL NT € agle HLS nae S55 >
[51:54] So leave them, [0 Muhammad], for you are not to be
blamed.

which talks about how to deal with those who offensively deny the religion,'
is claimed to be abrogated by the verse that follows it,

TThis interpretation is based on the context which is determined by the two preceding
verses 51:52-53.

3. THE METHODOLOGY 3.3. RULE-BASED METHODOLOGY

foo Ll Sareball 25 55H SG SS

[51:55] And remind, for indeed, the reminder benefits the believers.

which prescribes a different way of dealing, except that it is dealing with
a different group altogether, namely the believers as opposed to the disbelievers
handled by the first verse. The majority of scholars duly reject this abrogation
claim that violates the sameness rule.

The next two rules deal with situations where there is nothing to reconcile
in the first place. This happens when a verse has already set constraints
on itself, so there is no conflict when another verse is compatible with those
constraints.

Rule 3 : Temporariness
If a verse indicates that its ruling is temporary, and another verse replaces
that ruling, that is not abrogation.

This rule is applied in Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] and Zeid [206] to an example
that illustrates the point:

[tsi ot Sil dG ES LAboly 1426 .. }

[2:109] ... So, excuse and pardon until God brings His command ...

The word 'until' makes it clear that the command may change later. The new
command would not be an abrogation of the first one, because the first com-
mand has already anticipated it. Indeed, God subsequently revealed a number
of verses directing the Muslims to fight back instead. For example,

(rs sebil Sail on cid JE a Sly LUE Ob JRE 550) 531

[22:39] Those who have been fought are given permission [to fight
back] for they have been wronged, and God is certainly capable of
making them prevail.

The command to endure hostility was not abrogated by the command to
fight back because the former was explicitly temporary until God mandates
otherwise. Exegetes have postulated that the reason God did not allow Mus-
lims initially to fight back was that they were too weak. When Muslims became
stronger, God allowed them to fight back.®

8Under this interpretation, verse 2:109 may become applicable again if Muslims become
weak in a different era. The refutation of its abrogation in this case would be based on
a different validation rule (upcoming Rule 4).

3. THE METHODOLOGY 3.3. RULE-BASED METHODOLOGY

While this validation rule refutes the claim of abrogation based on the
expiration of a time constraint, the next rule deals with a different type of
constraint.

Rule 4 : Contingency
If a verse specifies a contingency for its ruling, and another verse has a con-
flicting ruling but without this contingency, that is not abrogation.

This rule is commonly applied in the literature, dating back to Al-Tabari

[107]. What is a contingency (dl ic) ? It is a condition for carrying out
a command. As long as the contingency exists, the command is to be carried
out. If the contingency is no more, so is the command no more. If the
contingency comes back, so does the command.? An example of a contingent
command is,

: A ol A A So \& ail 2 Gs Y
[A : ee 5) gl Nyaa ls 2858 UI SHG
[60:8] God does not forbid you from those who did not fight you in
the religion and did not evict you from your homes that you be good
to them and be equitable with them. God loves the equitable.

lb be Skt oll 3 S86 pal ca dish 22 n1g 3]

{ SyAlUBN es i,t OS 5 BIS U peed! & Labs

[4 : Sa

[60:9] Rather, God forbids you from those who fought you in the

religion, evicted you from your homes, and supported those who did

- that you ally with them. He who allies with them - then those are
the wrongdoers.

These two verses make it clear that the prohibition from forming alliances with
some non-Muslims is only for those non-Muslims who are hostile and militant
against Muslims. For all others, Muslims are encouraged to be cordial and
equitable. The contingency here is hostility. Verse 60:8 shows what happens
when the contingency is not there, and verse 60:9 shows what happens when
it is.

This validation rule would refute the claim of abrogation involving such
contingency since there is patently no conflict between the two verses. If the

°This principle is captured by the expression "the ruling goes around with its contingency,

in affirmation as well as in negation." (lasy ig ale at og rl)

3. THE METHODOLOGY 3.3. RULE-BASED METHODOLOGY

contingency is there, the contingent ruling applies. If the contingency is not
there, the other ruling applies.

3.3.2 Rules Based on Principle

There are situations where an abrogation claim can be summarily dismissed
without having to go through a reconciliation effort. This happens when
claiming abrogation would violate a fundamental principle in the religion. We
will present two validation rules which capture such a situation.

Rule 5: Facts
If the verse is a statement of fact, it cannot be abrogated.

This rule is widely supported by pro-abrogation scholars. Here is an example.

fe: Messing as V5s Dole gli Up
[73:5] Indeed, We will cast upon you [Muhammad] a weighty ut-
terance.!°

There is no command here, just a statement about what will happen. This
verse would not be subject to abrogation. The reason is that abrogation in
this case would mean that the statement has become untrue, and that is not
a possibility for a statement made by God. Because of this point, some scholars
have been adamant in their support of this rule. Al-Nahhas [71] goes as far as
doubting the faith of those who disagree with it.

This rule is also among the oldest validation rules in the literature, appear-
ing in early books such as the exegesis by Al-Tabari [107]. Nonetheless, there
are dissenters. The book by Ibn Salama [170] is one of the early dedicated
books on abrogation, and it states that the above verse 73:5 is abrogated,
a claim that is overwhelmingly rejected.

Verses that tell stories of the past, or relate historical events, are likewise
statements of fact and cannot be abrogated. For instance,
6 4 x . qo eer we
: tee JW
[3:41] [Zachariah] said, "Lord, give me a sign." a said, "Your

sign is that you will not speak to people for three days except by
gesturing."

10The utterance is understood to be the Quranic revelation.

3. THE METHODOLOGY 3.3. RULE-BASED METHODOLOGY

This verse cannot be abrogated because the event of Zachariah's three-day
silence has already happened. While this may be obvious, verse 3:41 was
actually claimed abrogated. The majority, however, disagreed. We discuss
this claim briefly on page 184.

It is important to differentiate between purely declarative statements, and
statements that are structured as declarative but semantically carry a com-
mand. This occurs in many languages, and Arabic grammar allows it as well.
For instance, the statement

"

[sov:3 ai] 4 os cel gals} Y »

[2:256] "There is no compulsion in religion ..."

signifies a command "do not compel people in matters of religion." Therefore,
Rule 5 would not properly apply to this case. The verse was claimed to be
abrogated by a minority, and the claim was refuted using methods other than
this validation rule.

The next rule is self-evident and widely accepted;

Rule 6 : Chronology
An abrogated verse must have been revealed earlier than the verse that
abrogated it.

Despite its simplicity and clear logic, this rule is difficult to validate or
invalidate in some cases. The Quranic script is not ordered according to the
chronology of revelation. In fact, that chronology is not completely known.

Here is what is known about the chronology. For Quranic chapters, their
order of revelation is mostly known based on historical events such as the
immigration from Mecca to Medina (see Appendix A.6). For verses within
a chapter, the order of revelation is mostly the same as the order in the Quranic
script (Daruza {135]), with some of the exceptions related to us by narrations
that indicate a different order. Unfortunately, most of these narrations are
uncertain in sourcing.

Notwithstanding this uncertainty, the chronology rule is a rule of principle,
and a majority of pro-abrogation scholars have acknowledged it. In fact, Al-
Zahiri [121] further requires that the chronology in a claim of abrogation be
known without doubt.

Al

3. THE METHODOLOGY 3.4. ANALYSIS-BASED METHODOLOGY - (3:102)

3.4 Analysis-Based Methodology - (3:102)

As we have seen, rule-based methodology is sufficient for refuting weaker abro-
gation claims. In this section, we illustrate the main, analysis-based method-
ology that deals with meritorious abrogation claims. We will do that through
an example of a famous claim about religious piety. As we discuss the claim,
we will point out the different steps of the methodology in boxed commentary.

First, we specify the verses (abrogated and abrogating) involved in the
claim. Only the parts pertaining to the abrogation claim are quoted.
A straightforward translation of these parts is included and may be
elaborated later as we discuss the claim. We also cite some key figures
who made or supported the claim,!! in chronological order. (Step A)

A) The claim:

The following verse,

[vt : Ope Jl ... asl GS abl 1gf5l .. ®
[3:102] ... watch out for God as He ought to be watched ...

has been claimed to be abrogated by the verse:
[V1 pilaall] € . REEL Le ail |gaSls
[64:16] So watch out for God as much as you can ...
This claim is supported by a number of early Muslims as reported in Ibn Al-

Jawzi [147], and by many scholars including Al-Sadusi [84], Al-Andalusi [19],
Ibn Salama [170], Al-Suyuti [100], and Al-Karmi [60].

Next, we explain the apparent conflict between the verses that gave
rise to the claim. Pinpointing a conflict is the basis for considering
an abrogation claim meritorious. (Step B)

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The basis for the claim of abrogation is a perceived conflict between the
command in the first verse to watch out for God as He ought to be watched,
which is a very high standard if at all attainable, and the command in the

11 Appendix A.2 tabulates the number of scholars for and against each abrogation claim
in the literature that we surveyed.

3. THE METHODOLOGY 3.4. ANALYSIS-BASED METHODOLOGY - (3:102)

second verse to watch out for Him as much as we can. The annulment of the
mandate of the first command, which is the basis for claiming abrogation, is
inferred from the fact that following the second command which came later
would be sufficient, therefore we do not have to follow the first command.

Next, we present reconciliation arguments for the two verses in order
to refute the abrogation claim. Often, more than one interpretation
is presented starting from the most plausible in our view. Possible re-
buttals of those interpretations are included where appropriate. (Step

C)

C) Reconciliation arguments:

There are several viable interpretations that reconcile the two verses, thus
showing that there is no actual conflict and refuting the abrogation claim.
The first interpretation, which is widely mentioned in the literature, is that
"as much as you can" is in fact synonymous with "as He ought to be watched"
(Makki [184]). This view is based on a broad Islamic principle that is estab-
lished in another verse:

[oan sa adil ¢ ... ads SUS ah leg Y >

[2:286] God does not charge a soul except [that within] its capacity

so "as He ought to be watched" cannot be more than "as much as you can."
As Mostafa [186] phrases it, this is an example of "clarifying the enigmatic"
where "as much as you can" clarifies what "as He ought to be watched" means.

Some have rebutted this interpretation by claiming that verse 2:286 itself
is abrogated. However, this is not possible since verse 2:286 is a statement of
fact, so it cannot be abrogated by verse 3:102' or by any other verse for that
matter, according to the Facts validation rule. This leaves only the possibility
that the verses need to be considered in conjunction, so the reconciliation
argument is justified.

A second argument that reconciles the verses is advocated by Waliyullah
[203]. It contends that the mandate in verse 3:102 is about matters of faith,
while the mandate in verse 64:16 is about acts of worship. This interpretation
is supported by what the verses say after their piety mandate. Verse 3:102
continues to say "and do not die except as Muslims" so it stands to logic that
this is about faith. Verse 64:16 continues to say "and listen and obey, and spend
Nase so it stands

[in the way of God]" [\1: .plassi] € a | ails | gaubels \ yas
to logic that this is about actions.

12In addition, such abrogation claim would violate the Chronology validation rule since
verse 2:286 comes before verse 3:102 in the recognized order of revelation.

i?

3. THE METHODOLOGY 3.4. ANALYSIS-BASED METHODOLOGY - (3:102)

The fact that these are two different facets of piety eliminates the perceived
conflict. Al-Arid [20] reports that Al-Shazli, a respected scholar of the 7th hijri
Century, presented the same interpretation.

A third argument also proclaims that the two verses address different
facets of piety, where the first verse addresses the quality while the second
verse addresses the quantity. What does that mean? Let us look at the specific
wording used in verse 3:102 and its context to understand the meaning.

e The wording. Some linguistic aspects of the Arabic words used in

verse 3:102 need to be highlighted. The word \,isl (ittaqu, translated to
'watch out for') and its conjugations are among the more elaborate words
in the Arabic vocabulary. The noun sii - taqwa can be translated to
'watching out [for God]' or 'piety', among other translations. The word
that qualifies the 'piety' in the verse is 45 - haqq which means 'true', so
the part that is translated to "as He ought to be watched" can also be
translated to "according to His true piety" more literally.
Furthermore, the word used for piety in the verse is not the straight
noun es - taqwa, but a singular version of it: sl - tugah, which means
a piety or a type of piety.'* Therefore, the translation of the verse can
be further refined to "watch out for God in the true way He is to be
watched."

e The context. What is the "true way" of piety mandated by verse
3:102? The context of the verse sheds some light. Here are the preceding
two verses, together with the complete verse translated according to the
above linguistic analysis.

SSM Sol jal Seas ted Oe aay
ve lac JTL Ge 8h -Sasld! Jes Sad

[3:100] O you who have believed, if you obey some of those
who were given Scripture [before you], they would turn you back,
after your belief, [to being] unbelievers.

2h yt5 a % at Sul dale ile £5 A Gye BS;

Vv): hae JN pede bijo d) Gab Lib ahh ats 825 *

[3:101] And how could you disbelieve while the verses of God
are being recited to you, and among you is His Messenger? And

13The classical dictionary Lisan Al-Arab (G,/| glJ) mentions that 3 - tugah is a singular
of A - tuga (Ibn Manzur [168]). The word Bb - tuga is synonymous with 48 - taqwa
(the straight noun for piety) according to Al-Sihah (clei), another classical dictionary
(AlL-Jawhari [58]).

3. THE METHODOLOGY 3.4. ANALYSIS-BASED METHODOLOGY - (3:102)

whoever holds firmly to God has [indeed] been guided to a straight
path.

46 , recy I 3 a2 cd V5 old So ahs ail 28 kal all TG
[ves Olpae SU

[3:102] O you who have believed, watch out for God in the
true way He is to be watched and do not die except as Muslims.

Verses 3:100 and 3:101 warn Muslims not to obey followers of previous
scriptures, but instead to rely on God's Messenger and God's verses.
The conclusion comes in 3:102 that Muslims should watch out for God
in the true way He is to be watched and not die except as Muslims.
Given this strong context, "the true way He is to be watched" would be
referring to the Islamic way.

e Piety in Islam. How is the Islamic way of piety different from the
piety in other religions? Some groups in Christianity believe that they
will not be punished in the Hereafter once they accept Christ (PBUH) as
their savior. It is therefore likely that the way they watch out for God
will be different from those who believe that they will be held accountable
in the Hereafter, which Islam teaches.

Another difference comes from some groups in Judaism who do not fully
believe in life after death. It is, therefore, likely that the way they watch
out for God is to the extent that He affects them in this life. In Islam,
the extent encompasses both this life and the Hereafter, which calls for
a different way of piety.

Al-Arid [20] points out another difference between Islam and previous
religions in their view of piety which further substantiates our inter-
pretation. He addresses monasticism (4;Ls3!), a religious discipline of
piety championed by Christians which, according to a number of Islamic
scholars including Ibn Taymia [173], Muslims are not allowed to practice.

Monasticism is highly demanding and fits the image of dedicated religios-
ity, so it seems like a higher level of piety that would be commendable
to attain, but verse 3:102 stresses to Muslims that the true piety God
wants from them is to be practiced differently; in the way Islam details.

The conclusion of this discussion is that verse 3:102 specifies a 'quality' by
mandating the nature of piety that Islam prescribes. This interpretation fits
the exact wording and the context of the verse. Verse 64:16, on the other
hand, specifies a 'quantity' by mandating that Muslims should strive for that
piety as much as they can. There is no conflict between the two mandates
since they are talking about different facets of piety, and this lack of conflict
invalidates the abrogation claim.

3. THE METHODOLOGY 3.4. ANALYSIS-BASED METHODOLOGY - (3:102)

One final remark. We have presented different interpretations that recon-
cile the two verses. All it takes is one of them to hold in order to refute the
abrogation claim. Having more than one interpretation can only strengthen
the case against abrogation, since one viable reconciliatory interpretation is
sufficient, regardless of all other interpretations.

Next, we present corroborating evidence related to the abrogation
claim. Often, it is in the form of narrations from highly regarded
figures about the claim. Rebuttal arguments will also be included as
appropriate. (Step D)

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

There are narrations, including one from Ibn Abbas (RA), which report
that when verse 3:102 was revealed, Muslims perceived the mandate in it as
unattainable, and that verse 64:16 came as a follow-up to that reaction. Ibn
Al-Jawzi [147] reports some of these narrations, but also reports a different
narration stating that Ibn Abbas (Ra) opposed the abrogation claim. The
authenticity of all of these narrations is not clear. A similar story supporting
the abrogation claim, with more elaborate details, is mentioned in Al-Andalusi
[19] without any attribution.

As to the circumstances surrounding the revelation of verse 3:102 (together
with the 2 verses before it and the one after it), a story is reported about
an attempt to break the unity of Muslims that was foiled when these verses
were revealed (Al-Wahidi [116]). However, the story does not bear on the
abrogation claim itself one way or the other.

Next, we give examples of scholars who did not approve the abrogation
claim, mostly from the pro-abrogation camp. They will be grouped
according to the basis of their conclusion. The basis will be briefly

described, often by citing a corresponding validation rule. (Step E)

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

As "expert testimony" that this abrogation claim should be dismissed, we
are going to cite some of the scholars who accepted one of the reconciliation
arguments that we presented in Step C. To accept that the verses can be
reconciled is to reject the abrogation claim.

Al-Qurtubi [80], Makki [184], Al-Nahhas [71], Al-Khodari [64], Ibn Al-
Jawzi [147], Al-Zurqani [128], Nada [190], and Al-Zalmi [123] opposed the
claim, arguing that the two verses are saying the same thing (first argument
in Step C above).

3. THE METHODOLOGY 3.4. ANALYSIS-BASED METHODOLOGY - (3:102)

Zeid [206] and Shula [199] opposed the claim based on the Elaboration
validation rule; one verse elaborates the other.

Waliyullah [203], and Al-Shazli according to Al-Arid [20], opposed the
claim based on the Sameness validation rule; the two verses are dealing with
different subjects to begin with.

Finally, we highlight the main reconciliatory interpretation, and possi-
bly other points of the case, and state our conclusion about the validity
of the abrogation claim. (Step F)

F) Conclusion:

Based on the above interpretations of the two verses of this abrogation
claim that reconcile the perceived conflict, one way to summarize what the
verses Say is:

Watch out for God to the best of your ability, and God will
recognize that as the way He ought to be watched since He
never asks for anything beyond your ability.

This reconciliation is enough to refute the abrogation claim according to the
established burden of proof.

u~")

With both tools of our methodology in place, the detailed analysis of §3.4
and the validation rules of §3.3, we are ready to methodically address the vast
body of abrogation claims in Part II.

AT

Part II

The Claims

Ove study of the abrogation literature has revealed 432 ab-
rogation claims that have been made over the centuries. The
vast majority are easily refutable. Our focus will be on the
meritorious claims. We will carefully evaluate them one by
one against the burden of proof that was established in Chap-
ter 2.

We covered the first meritorious claim as an example in §3.4
and will cover nine more in the next three chapters. After
that, we will address the rest of the claims. A number of them
have some merit, and we will analyze them as well. The vast
majority have been regarded as weak or even frivolous, and we
include them just for completeness.

Chapter 4

Famous Claims

In this chapter, we discuss five abrogation claims that are ubiquitously men-
tioned in the literature. They are claims of great interest and have been studied
by a large number of scholars. They seem to have merit, are sometimes cited
as proof of the Abrogation Doctrine, or have otherwise an important bearing
on the tenor of this book.

4.1 Widow's Residence (2:240)

We start with a claim that had gained significant traction in the early centuries
of Islam despite being readily refutable as many scholars have later concluded,
including Ibn Taymia and Ibn Kathir.! This is a particularly impactful claim
as it affects the livelihood of a person at a difficult juncture, namely a widow
in the aftermath of losing her husband.

A) The claim:

The following verse,

gue ee cea
[ste : sis (LSE! se th

[2:240] And those who decease among you and leave wives behind
- a will for their wives: provision for a year without eviction. But if
they leave [of their own accord], then there is no violation on your

1See details in Step E.

4. FAMOUS CLAIMS 4.1. Wrbow's RESIDENCE (2:240)

part in what they do with themselves of proper norms. And God is
mighty and wise.

is claimed to be abrogated by

Alisa Sendth gate cigs 53855 es Othe Selly)
Sgt gles eg 5 al nH
[8 3,8) € Sud Ghd Ky hl

[2:234] And those who decease among you and leave wives behind
- they, [the wives, shall] wait observantly for four months and ten
[days]. And when they have reached their term, then there is no
violation on your part in what they do with themselves within proper
norms. And God is keenly aware of what you do.

It is also claimed to be abrogated by other verses, most often verse 4:12 that
specifies the inheritance shares of widows and widowers. With very few ex-
ceptions, early Muslim scholars approved this claim, e.g. Ibn Sallam [171],
Al-Nahhas [71], Ibn Salama [170], Al-Baghdadi [24], and Makki [184]. Most
exegetes, including Al-Tabari [107], approved the claim as well. Some later
scholars such as Al-Suyuti [100] and Waliyullah [203] also approved it, and
some even used it as an example that illustrates the validity of the Abrogation
Doctrine, e.g., Farghali [136].

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The grace period (s4¢) of a widow is the time when she needs to abstain
from marrying again. The perceived conflict is based on interpreting verse
2:240 as setting the grace period to one year whereas verse 2:234 sets it to
four months and ten days. Another perceived conflict is with the inheritance
verse 4:12 which sets a specific share of the husband's estate for the widow,
whereas verse 2:240 gives her a separate allotment of one year's provision.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

One aspect that may have propelled this abrogation claim is the striking
similarity in the wording of the two verses. Both 2:234 and 2:240 start with the

ree

exact same words B55) VET Kis yrs Pa (And those who decease among
you and leave wives behind). Later on, they use almost identical words:

Syxbl ere 3 aes) lad wee GS SG (then there is no violation on your part
in what they do with themselves atin proper norms) in verse 2:234, and

Sexe Se Segall 3 elas ls 3 ie tS 3G (then there is no violation on your part
in what they do with themselves of proper norms) in verse 2:240.

4. FAMOUS CLAIMS 4.1. Wrbpow's RESIDENCE (2:240)

This may have put the spotlight on the salient difference between the two
verses, namely the length of time they specify; one specifies four months and
ten days and the other specifies a year, thus giving the appearance of conflict.

However, there is another salient difference between the two verses that
removes any conflict: the subject matter. As Al-Khodari |64] asserts, "whoever
looks at the two verses sees that they are of different subjects" ( (cee) ol BU
23) piles Laly). Verse 2:234 addresses an obligation on the widow (to wait
observantly through the grace period) and verse 2:240 addresses an obligation
on the husband's estate (to provide for the widow and not evict her from the
residence), which is a right for the widow not an obligation on her.

Therefore, there is no conflict between the different time frames in the
verses. One time frame is for the grace period by which she is obligated, and
the other is for the right of residence to which she is entitled but not obligated.

As Qutb [191] states it, "So this decides a right for her that she can use if
she wants, and that decides a duty on her that she cannot escape' "(ae ppt oh gs
au je Y Qe (e yp Noy caren! Sele gy! J). Abu-Zahra [6] states that one
verse is about a duty on the woman and the subject of the other is a right for
her, commenting that this is "crystal clear from the text" (_d\ oy os cy):

The contexts of the two verses also support this dichotomy of right versus
duty, as Al-Ghali [43] points out. Verse 2:234 is followed by other duties
pertaining to respecting the grace period in verse 2:235, while verse 2:240 is
followed by other rights of provision for women from their husbands in verse
2:241, using the same word ¢ lx (provision) used in verse 2:240.

This reconciliation has been adopted by many other scholars. It is based
on the explicit instructions of the verses, and it is so straightforward that it
may raise the question of why a conflict was perceived in the first place. The
perception may be attributable to some narrations that are related to the
two verses, and to the historical context of pre-Islamic practices concerning
widows.

We will address these aspects in detail in Step D, but as far as reconciling
what the two verses explicitly state, there is no conflict that needs reconcil-
iation. As Zeid [206] notes, "and as it is intuitive that the right would not
conflict with the duty, a verse that determines the right would not conflict
with a verse that determines the duty" (C>1,)| (ale Y Goll ol al oe ol LaSy

cals aT ee ell yb a Laks Yi dl gt ob -).

A second argument reconciles verse 2:240 with the inheritance verse 4:12
that specifies what the widow would inherit from her husband's estate,

Ny pA) SE 3 J Ay c2a) 3455 J 8) 355 ee 2S! 5a - :

4. FAMOUS CLAIMS 4.1. Wrbow's RESIDENCE (2:240)

[V6 clus] {2551 Le Gpiogd Srey 225 Ss 03 Ge argh 245
[4:12] ... And for [the wives] is one fourth of what you left if you

do not have a child. But if you have a child, then for them is an eighth
of what you left, after any bequest you make or debt ...

which has also been claimed to abrogate verse 2:240. There is clearly no
conflict between providing residence for the widow for a year and giving her
a share of the estate after that. Zeid [206] puzzles: "where is the conflict
between inheritance and the right of residence and support?" (cm aye sl
Phadasly Rud) Gay Ol poll).

e Perhaps the perceived conflict is with a related Prophetic narration, not
with the verses themselves. The narration in question states that there is no
bequest for an heir.? Those who see a conflict may view the provision for
the widow's residence as a bequest for her, contradicting that she is a stated
heir in verse 4:12. Without going into the authenticity of this narration or
the question of whether a Prophetic narration can abrogate the Quran, let us
reconcile what the narration says with what verses 2:240 and 4:12 say.

The first facet of reconciliation is that the full statement of the narration
says: "God has given everyone who has a right their right, so there is no
bequest for an heir." Al-Tabari [107| and many others have concluded that
the widow's residence in verse 2:240 is a mandated right by God for the widow,
not an option for the husband to bequeath or not. Given that, why would the
God-given right of residence for the widow be excluded from the scope of "God
has given everyone who has a right their right" in the above narration?

The residence is not "a bequest for an heir" which would mean that the
husband opted for it; it is a direct command from God that leaves no choice
for the husband. Therefore, there is no conflict between honoring the residence
requirement of verse 2:240 and abiding by the Prophetic narration.

The perceived conflict with the narration may have been the result of
semantic ambiguity. The Arabic word 4.2, is used in both the verse and the
narration.2 The word can mean 'instruction' which is how it is used in the
verse, and can mean 'bequest' which is how it is used in the narration. The
fact that it is the same word, appearing in an imperative sense in the verse and
a prohibitive sense (4.25 Y) in the narration, may have given an impression of
conflict even though the two uses have different meanings.

e This leads us to the second facet of reconciliation. The bequest that the
narration restricts has its origins in verse 4:12. Per the verse, the shares are
to be divided "after any bequest you make or debt". The narration restricts

?Reported by Al-Tirmizi [113] and belatedly authenticated by Al-Albani [13] but found
inauthentic by several scholars, such as Ibn Al-Arabi [144].

3The semantic ambiguity of the word 4,23 plays a role in another abrogation claim in
§6.1.

4. FAMOUS CLAIMS 4.1. Wrbow's RESIDENCE (2:240)

one of the two (bequest) but not the other (debt). This raises an interesting
question. Does the mandatory nature of the widow's residence make it fall
under 'debt' rather than 'bequest'? If so, it would not fall under the purview
of the narration, so there would be no conflict to contend with in the first
place. Let us explore this facet.

The word 'debt' (-,5) is not restricted to borrowed money. It applies to

financial obligations in general. One example is the husband's dowry to his
wife which is broken into two parts, one part paid to her at the beginning of
the marriage and the other part paid later. If the man dies before paying the
second part, it is taken from his estate and given to the widow (Ibn Taymia
[172]) before any other division of the estate is administered. This is clearly
a financial obligation rather than returning borrowed money since the man
certainly did not borrow that money from his wife.

Al-Qurtubi [80] gives another example of 'debt' in the specific context of
interpreting "after any bequest you make or debt". He reports that Al-Shafei
opined that other financial obligations related to religious duties should be
taken from the estate as part of the 'debt' before distribution of the shares
start, "it's imperative to take that from his capital, and this is apparent at
the outset, because it is a right among the rights, so it has to be fulfilled on
his behalf after death" (5> #Y «ijl csaly ale May cle ply ye GUS Sel Coy
ayes) de as oilal ers weyers or):

The residence has something else in common with the debt category that
it does not have with the bequest category. The allowance for debt in verse
4:12 has no upper limit; it may consume all the estate, while the allowance
for bequests is limited to one-third of the estate.4 The widow's residence is
similar to debt in that it also has no upper limit; the cost of residence may
consume part of the estate or may consume the entire estate, depending on
how big the estate is.

To summarize, the reconciliation here is that the widow's residence is
a God-given right not an optional bequest. If it is to be categorized, it would
fall under the debt allowance of verse 4:12. Therefore, it would not infringe
on the "no bequest for an heir" restriction of the Prophetic narration if this
was in fact the reason for claiming abrogation.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

Given the straightforward reconciliation of verses 2:234 and 2:240, the en-
tire case for the abrogation claim hinges on the availability of further evidence.
Such evidence should be compelling enough to overcome, all by itself, the bur-
den of proof needed for the abrogation of a Quranic verse that we established
in §2.1. Zeid [206], who rejected this abrogation claim, focused his refutation

4The basis for this limitation is another Prophetic narration, authenticated by Muslim
[189].

4. FAMOUS CLAIMS 4.1. Wrbow's RESIDENCE (2:240)

arguments on such evidence. We will follow in his footsteps.

The evidence consists of narrations by key figures related to the claim,
as well as accounts of pre-Islamic customs of mourning. As we will see, the
evidence is not uniformly supportive of the abrogation claim; some of it is in
fact against the claim and some of it does not favor either side. The evidence is
also conflicting in terms of other details not directly related to the abrogation
question. We will discuss each piece of evidence in detail given the critical role
it plays in this particular abrogation claim.

e Narrations by the Prophet (PBUH)

These narrations have often been cited in the discussion of this abrogation
claim. The words of the Prophet (PBUH) do not mention abrogation, but they
are related to issues that verses 2:234 and 2:240 address.

In the first narration (Al-Bukhari [35]), the Prophet (PBUH) instructs
a woman to have her widowed daughter stick to observing the mourning rites
for four months and ten days, then mentions that mourning in pre-Islamic
customs used to be for one year. This puts the Islamic mourning period in
perspective, as a lightening of a burden. It also elaborates verse 2:234 in that
the grace period is also a mourning period.°

Al-Qurtubi [80] refers to this Prophetic narration as the tipping point for
his siding with the abrogation claim. Maybe he viewed the reference to 'one
year' in the narration as related to the year of residence provided for the widow
by verse 2:240, although the words of the Prophet (PBUH) explicitly referred to
the year of mourning "in pre-Islamic era" (4\»be| _3).

In the second narration (Al-Tirmizi {113]), a woman tells the Prophet (PBUH)
that her husband was killed and she was left in the home by herself, then asks
if she can move to her family's home instead. The Prophet (PBUH) instructs
her to "stay where you are until the mandated term is reached" (SuISs (Su!

ale LI ths _e~). The term is understood to be the four months and ten

days,° so the narration is elaborating verse 2:234 by requiring the grace period
to be spent at the husband's home.'

Nonetheless, Al-Tabari [107] uses this Prophetic narration to tip the bal-
ance in favor of the abrogation of verse 2:240. Maybe he viewed forbidding
the widow from moving out of her husband's home until the grace period of
four months and ten days is over as contradicting her freedom to move out

5 Al-Basri is reported to dismiss the mourning rites altogether (Al-Nahhas [71]).

®"Until the mandated term is reached" (abel LSI foe .=~) in the narration are words
from the verse that follows verse 2:234 which fixed the four months and ten days period.

7It should be noted that the rating of this Prophetic narration by Al-Tirmizi is a degree
below authentic (eee oe), and that there is a narration by Ibn Abbas (RA) stating that

the widow can spend her grace period wherever she wants (narration # 26 in Appendix
A.3).

4. FAMOUS CLAIMS 4.1. Wrbow's RESIDENCE (2:240)

during the year's residence which is inferred from verse 2:240. This is also how
Al-Zurgani [128] viewed it.

Zeid [206] rejects this view. Indeed, verse 2:240 does not address the con-
ditions under which the widow can move out of her husband's home during
the year's residence. It only addresses the obligation of the estate to provide
for her by ending this obligation should she move out. This is perfectly com-
patible with further specification of the conditions for moving out, e.g., she
cannot move out during her grace period of four months and ten days, but she
can freely move out after that, forfeiting the rest of her support within the
remaining seven months and twenty days of the year. As we will see shortly,
a narration by Mujahid says as much.

In the third Prophetic narration that is cited by Al-Wahidi [116] as the
circumstance of revelation of verse 2:240, the narrator mentions that a man
who immigrated to Medina died and left a wife, parents, and children behind.
When this was conveyed to the Prophet (PBUH), he gave the man's estate to
the parents and children but not to the wife according to the norms of the
time, but ordered them to provide for her from the estate for a year. This
narration is not authentic, as pointed out by the verifier of Al-Wahidi's book.
Authenticity aside, let us look at how the narration may impact the abrogation
argument.

The only aspect that could be relevant to the abrogation of verse 2:240
would be in connection with the inheritance verse 4:12, not with the grace-
period verse 2:234. The ruling of the Prophet (PBUH) in this narration came
before the inheritance rules of verse 4:12 were revealed,® so he followed the
existing norms of dividing the estate, which did not include a share for the
widow. However, he ordered the year's provision for the widow out of the
estate, presumably in response to the command in verse 2:240 since Al-Wahidi
cites the narration as a circumstance for the revelation of the verse.

Now, this narration has been used in the context of arguing that the in-
heritance verse 4:12 abrogated the right to a year's residence (e.g., Al-Khazen
(62|). The idea is that verse 4:12 gives the widow a specific share of the estate,
whereas the narration shows that there was no share for her before. However,
the verse does not say that this share is given in lieu of the year's residence
that verse 2:240 mandates. It just gave her the share and did not order taking
away anything else. Perhaps taking away the residence came up by invoking
the "no bequest for an heir" rule? If so, this angle was addressed in detail in
Step C above.

e Order of Revelation of the two verses

For verse 2:234 to abrogate verse 2:240 as postulated by the claim, it must
have been revealed later (the Chronology validation rule). Al-Zahiri [121] re-

8See Appendix A.6 for the order of revelation of Quranic chapters.

4. FAMOUS CLAIMS 4.1. Wrbow's RESIDENCE (2:240)

quires the chronology to be without doubt for an abrogation claim to stand.
What is the evidence that verse 2:234 was revealed after 2:240, notwithstand-
ing that it appears earlier in the Quranic script?

Almost all scholars who approve this claim and raise the chronology ques-
tion contend that the order in the Quranic script is not necessarily the same
as the order of revelation. This is certainly true, but it does not prove the
assertion that in this particular case, the two verses in question were revealed
in the opposite order of where they appear in the Quranic script.

No evidence was provided for this assertion in the extensive literature we
surveyed unless the abrogation claim itself is taken as evidence, which would
make it a circular argument. Makki [184] raised doubts that 2:240 was revealed
before 2:234 even as he conceded the abrogation claim. Ibn Al-Arabi [145]
included the opposite view that verse 2:240 is the one that abrogated verse
2:234.

Adding to the uncertainty, there is a narration that quotes both Mujahid
and Ibn Abbas (RA) that implies the opposite order of revelation. The part by
Mujahid rejects the abrogation claim altogether, and the part by Ibn Abbas
(RA) makes the opposite claim of abrogation; that verse 2:240 abrogated verse
2:234, not the other way around. This narration was authenticated by Al-
Bukhari [35], even though there are some reservations about the narrating
chain which we will address when we discuss the narration shortly.

Another narration, also authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35] reports the reac-
tion of Uthman (RA) to a remark about this abrogation claim. In one version,
it is not clear which of the two verses abrogates the other. In another version,
the abrogated verse is specified as verse 2:240, but the narrator equivocates
his account by saying "or something like that" (\ia > i). Zeid [206] com-
ments about this narration by identifying the abrogated verse as 2:234 and
the abrogating verse as verse 2:240, then uses the narration to challenge the
claimed chronology.

The conclusion is that there is no proof that the order of revelation that is
necessary for the abrogation claim holds, and there is more than one reason to
suspect the reverse; that the verse claimed abrogated was revealed after the
verse that is claimed to abrogate it.

e The narration by Uthman (RA)

We have just mentioned two versions of this narration (Al-Bukhari [35]).
In one version, Ibn Al-Zubair (RA) was asking Uthman (Ra), who as Caliph
had commissioned a comprehensive transcription of the Quran, why he still
included verse 2:240 even though it was abrogated. Uthman (RA) responded
that he would not change anything from its place.

The question by Ibn Al-Zubair (RA) shows that his opinion is that verse

4. FAMOUS CLAIMS 4.1. Wrbow's RESIDENCE (2:240)

2:240 is abrogated. However, he was not asking Uthman (RA) about the abro-
gation aspect; he was asking him why he did not remove the verse from the
Quranic script. The answer by Uthman (ra) did not address the abrogation
aspect one way or the other; he only emphasized that he would not change
anything in the Quranic script from the way the Prophet (PpBuH) left it for us.
His answer could not have been "no, that verse is not abrogated" even if that
was his view, since this would suggest that if it were abrogated, he would
remove it from the Quranic script as Ibn Al-Zubair (RA) was asking.

Therefore, as far as evidence for the abrogation claim of verse 2:240 is
concerned, we have the opinion of Ibn Al-Zubair (RA) to consider. Al-Zurqani
[128] and many other scholars have repeatedly emphasized that an opinion that
a verse is abrogated, even by a fellow of the Prophet (PBUH), does not establish
that the verse is abrogated. An opinion cannot overrule the authority of the
Quran.

e The narration by Mujahid

A narration by Mujahid (see narrations 26 and 27 in Appendix A.3) goes
against this abrogation claim by reconciling the two verses in a way that is
compatible with the argument presented in Step C. It states that the two verses
mandate a grace period for four months and ten days followed by an additional
allowance for residence for seven months and twenty days, thus completing the
year that is mentioned in verse 2:240.

The narration was authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35]. There is a question
about whether Ibn Abi-Najeeh, the narrator that reported from Mujahid, is
giving a first-hand account.? There is another narration and commentary
bundled with Mujahid's narration in the same listing in Al-Bukhari [35], and
these additional parts were conveyed by Ataa Al-Khorasani who has been
criticized as a narrator. However, this has no bearing on the part narrated
from Mujahid since the narration chain for that does not include Al-Khorasani.

The narration by Mujahid is acknowledged by most authors who wrote
about this abrogation claim, but they have mixed views about it. For example,
Al-Qurtubi [80] describes this narration as "authentic, proved" (coli ae)
as he defends it against doubts about its authenticity, but he sides with the
abrogation view and refers to the same narration two paragraphs later as
"anomalous, deserted narration" (3)g>.g« 85% 4\9)).

e Other narrations

There are other narrations expressing opinions by early Muslims about
this abrogation claim (Al-Tabari [107]). Some of the narrations attributed

9 According to Ibn Hibban, everyone who quoted Mujahid in matters of exegesis took
those quotes from the writings of Al-Qasim Ibn Abi-Bazza, the scholar who did hear Mujahid
directly (Ibn Hajar [159]).

4. FAMOUS CLAIMS 4.1. Wrbow's RESIDENCE (2:240)

to Ibn Abbas (RA) support the abrogation claim, but other narrations also
attributed to him assert that verse 2:240 is the abrogating verse not the abro-
gated verse. Additional narrations assert different issues such as allowing the
grace period to be observed anywhere, not just at the husband's home.

There are also conflicts between the narrations by other early Muslims.
While most of them support the abrogation claim, some only support abro-
gation by the inheritance verse, not by verse 2:234. Some of them link the
abrogation question to pre-Islamic customs about widows that continued in the
early days of Islam. All of these narrations are singles, with varying authen-
ticity levels. Seldom do they include the reasoning behind their conclusions;
they just state their opinion summarily.

In closing, we went through the evidence that is often cited for and against
the abrogation of verse 2:240. Given how straightforward the reconciliation
argument of the verses was in Step C, a very compelling evidence was needed to
prove abrogation. The evidence needs to surmount the certainty of a Quranic
verse, following the principle '-,2Jb 'Y!) Sap VY geil 3 L' (what was established
with certainty cannot be eliminated except with certainty).

The given evidence would not even remotely achieve such level. The in-
evitable conclusion here is described by the simple words of Zeid [206] as he
concludes his discussion of verses 2:234 and 2:240, "so there is no way to claim
that one of them is abrogated by the other" (4+. Lalo! ol clesY Jes We

oe).
E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Here are some of the major pro-abrogation scholars who did not approve
the abrogation claim of verse 2:240.

Mujahid, a fellow of Ibn Abbas (RA), is the earliest major scholar who is
reported to have rejected this abrogation claim. As we mentioned, a narration
authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35] reports that Mujahid interpreted the two
verses as mandating a grace period for four months and ten days followed
by an additional allowance for residence for seven months and twenty days
(see narrations 26 and 27 in Appendix A.3), thus completing the year that is
mentioned in verse 2:240.

Al-Razi [83] agreed with the opinion of Al-Asfahani who rejected the claim,
describing this opinion as "extremely correct" (4>-e)\ &le (3).

Ibn Taymia did not approve this claim according to his student Ibn Kathir!?

who expressed the same opinion (Ibn Kathir [163]); there is no abrogation be-
cause verse 2:234 is about obligations of the widow whereas verse 2:240 is

10We could not find a written account of this opinion in Ibn Taymia's writings, but
Ibn Kathir conveyed the opinion in his own writings.

4. FAMOUS CLAIMS 4.1. Wrbow's RESIDENCE (2:240)

about obligations of the husband's estate, as we elaborated in Step C.

Many modern pro-abrogation scholars have rejected this abrogation claim
based on the same right-versus-duty argument of Step C, e.g., Zeid [206], Al-
Arid [20], and Hamza [138]. Ibn Uthaymin [177] presents both the abrogation
view and the reconciliation view without taking sides, while Al-Shaarawi [92]
presents the reconciliation view as a forgone conclusion without even mention-
ing abrogation as an alternative.

F) Conclusion:

There is no conflict between verses 2:234 and 2:240, nor with verse 4:12.
Together, they say to Muslims:

A Widow has an obligation to wait in observance after the
death of her husband for four months and ten days. She also
has a right to residence and support for a full year, taken from
her husband's estate before it is distributed among the heirs.
She cannot be evicted during the year, but what she does of
her own accord, within proper norms, after her obligation is
done is not a violation on the part of anyone involved.

Nothing in the wording of the three verses prevents this reconciliation. Abro-
gation was claimed here without its core ingredient, an irreconcilable conflict.

4.1.1 Impact of an Abrogation Claim

The claim that verse 2:240 is abrogated is a vivid example of the real-life
impact an abrogation claim can have. The prevailing opinion of scholars was
in favor of this abrogation claim in the early centuries of Islam. This means
that for centuries, widows were denied the right to live in their late husband's
home for the year specified in the Quran based on the belief that this right
has been abrogated.

While other abrogation claims had their impact, none had both the traction
and the personal impact that this claim had. For instance, the claim that
"There is no compulsion in religion ..." [So1: 3 ,4J\] { es cpl 3s} y is
abrogated could potentially have serious, widespread impact. However, this
claim did not gain traction so the impact was limited to fringe groups. By
contrast, the claim that verse 2:240 was abrogated was mainstream, almost
a forgone conclusion.

It is fair to say that from a point on in Islamic history, this abrogation
claim has been thoroughly debunked. Perhaps the stature of Ibn Taymia
and Ibn Kathir is what turned the tide against it and made future scholars

4. Famous CLAIMS 4.2. INTOXICATION AND PRAYER (4:43)

reexamine the evidence more carefully. The evidence had been there all the
time. The obvious reconciliation of the verses was spelled out by Mujahid in
the first century of Islam and has been cited by numerous authors ever since.

However, the recovery from this claim came too late for the Muslim widows
who had been deprived of their God-given right to shelter, based merely on
this abrogation claim. This was happening even as the abrogation claimants
fully acknowledged that verse 2:240 granted the widows the right not to be
evicted. Let us look at some of their quotes.

e After a lengthy analysis of all that was said about verse 2:240, Al-Tabari
[107] concludes the discussion by interpreting the closing of the verse
"and God is mighty and wise" (mS BP Aisis) by saying "and God is mighty
in His revenge on whoever disobeys His command and prohibition" (4\,
Angi ol AE cae alisl 3 pie). He goes on to list examples of such
disobedience and includes "and evicting [the widows] before the year is

over" (sees! clea dé cele).

e Al-Ghornati [47] comments that the closing of the verse "shows preva-
lence and supremacy over whoever prevented the execution of the will for
the mentioned support, or evicted [the widows] when they didn't want
to leave" (ogee! 3 (58 del esol 42 5)l BIE) ow e& os eal PEAY igh!
carl ope Y ay):

e Ibn Adel [143] also comments on the "God is mighty" closing, saying
that it implies "threat against whoever deviates from the line of this
revelation, through evicting the woman when she does not want to leave"

(creel ae Y ty alll cle! ob AjW ole fo tod) Galle Gd Ell Leg.

Nonetheless, eviction was the rule for centuries. A great injustice was done
in the name of this abrogation claim; widows were deprived of the relief that
God gave them to get back on their feet after losing their husbands. The relief
was taken away by this one claim. While Muslims have recovered from the
claim itself, the injustice that the claim has caused cannot be reversed.

4.2 Intoxication and Prayer (4:43)

In spite of it being one of the most famous abrogation claims in the literature,
this claim did not make it to the celebrated list of 20 claims by Al-Suyuti
(see §6.3). It did make it to Zeid's shorter list as the last of his 5 approved

4. Famous CLAIMS 4.2. INTOXICATION AND PRAYER (4:43)

claims.14
A) The claim:

The following verse,

Wa pdecge aes 62 8h; Lat | (STs al GG G>
[er : Ludi] € ... G ifs

[4:43] O you who have believed, do not approach prayer while you
are intoxicated until you know what you are saying, ...

has been claimed to be abrogated by the verse:

be hoy PB Gla ig ed tai 1g ial AVG GS
[ar 5.5UI € Ggbbad 2S 2,55 6 oleh [ce

[5:90] O you who have believed, indeed, intoxicants, gambling,
stone altars (a sacrificial ritual to idols), and divining arrows (a wa-
gering ritual) are but defilement from the work of Satan, so avoid it
that you may prosper.

This claim is supported by many scholars, including Ibn Abbas (RA) as reported
by Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] who also approved the claim, Al-Zuhri [127], Ibn Salama
[170], Makki [184], Al-Nahhas [71], and Zeid [206]. A related verse (2:219) is
also claimed to be abrogated by verse 5:90, but with less support from scholars.
We will address verse 2:219 when we analyze evidence pertaining to this claim
in Step D below.

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The basis for the claim of abrogation is that while the first verse prohibits
prayer for someone who is drunk, the second verse prohibits alcoholic drinks
altogether. The perceived conflict comes from the inference that the first verse
permits alcoholic drinks as long as they don't interfere with the prayers, while
the second verse annuls such permission with its blanket prohibition.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

Verse 4:43 commands Muslims not to approach prayer while intoxicated.
No one has claimed that this command has been annulled in the sense that we

117 eid [206] has an uncharacteristically brief discussion of this claim, only two paragraphs
after more than 30 pages discussing the other 4 claims he approved. Interestingly, Burton
[134] cites an earlier version of Zeid's work (1963) and states that only 4 claims were approved
there, not including this claim.

4. Famous CLAIMS 4.2. INTOXICATION AND PRAYER (4:43)

are now allowed to approach prayer while intoxicated. The claim of abrogation
is largely based on one of two views:

1. That the command not to approach prayer while intoxicated implies that
alcoholic beverages would be otherwise allowed, namely as long as they
do not interfere with prayers, and this allowance was abrogated by the
prohibition in verse 5:90.

2. That the command not to approach prayer while intoxicated was ren-
dered moot by the prohibition of alcohol in verse 5:90, so it was abrogated
in that sense.

We will present arguments against both views. Let us start with the first.

What was the situation before verse 4:43 was revealed? Alcoholic beverages
were permitted unconditionally. This permission did not come from a juristic
ruling, but it came from the absence of any juristic ruling prohibiting alcohol.
An established principle in Islamic jurisprudence is default allowance (jc\,\

Lol): if something has not been forbidden, then it is implicitly allowed
(Khallaf [183]). Indeed, early Muslims drank alcohol freely.

When verse 4:43 was revealed, it did not address what was already al-
lowed by default except for prohibiting Muslims from praying while intoxi-
cated, which had not been prohibited before. If an inference was made that
drinking was allowed outside of prayer times, that allowance was not some-
thing that the verse stated, but a continuation of the default allowance that
preceded the verse.

e However, some have argued that the existing allowance was 'ratified' by
verse 4:43, i.e., the verse provided a juristic ruling that allows for drinking
outside prayer times. The basis for this argument is inference by contrast (esgae
idl Jl), the notion that if something was forbidden for a stated condition, then
one could infer that outside that condition it is allowed as a matter of juristic
ruling, not just through default allowance. Based on this view, they argued
that verse 5:90 abrogated the inferred ruling of 4:43 that drinking is allowed
outside prayer times.

Is inference by contrast a binding juristic principle? It is not, according
to Al-Jassas [56] and scholars of the Abu-Hanifa school of thought as well as
A. Al-Ghazali [45], Al-Zahiri [121], Al-Amidi [18], and Abu-Zahra [6], among
others. It is easy to see why. Consider the verse

°
32s a

Dr olae dll ¢. eles Gash oat vio gditaly >

[3:103] O you who have believed, do not consume usury, doubled
and multiplied ...

4. Famous CLAIMS 4.2. INTOXICATION AND PRAYER (4:43)

which forbids Muslims from practicing usury, but with the qualification "dou-
bled and multiplied".

If inference by contrast was a valid juristic principle, it would mean that
this verse provides a juristic ruling that allows practicing usury as long as it is
a small amount, not "doubled and multiplied". This conclusion is patently not
true. Indeed, emphasizing a grievous aspect of bad conduct, such as practicing
usury in an excessive way or being drunk at the sacred time of prayers, does
not create a blanket permission to practice the bad conduct under less grievous
conditions.

Some advocates of the use of inference by contrast as a juristic principle
employ examples to support their view where the inference they make can be
deduced from the status quo, not from a new juristic ruling that changes the
status quo. Thus, while the ruling they deduce may be valid, the basis for it is
not. As Al-Amidi [18] phrases it, "The disagreement is about attributing the
negation in what was not mentioned to what the text signifies rather than to

the pre-existing negation (J> (J) oySeJ! Jowe ball ole! 3 aay bel ell ob
tell ill SY lbs)"

A claim of abrogation critically depends on where the basis of the ruling
lies; if the basis is the status quo, not the verse that is claimed abrogated, then
the abrogation claim is misplaced. In the case of verse 4:48, it is undeniable

that alcoholic beverages had been permitted by default allowance as the status
quo prior to the verse.

Inference by contrast is not only problematic as a juristic principle, but it
is also misapplied here. The command in the verse is "do not approach prayer
while intoxicated", not "do not get intoxicated at prayer time". If it were the
latter, the inference by contrast would be that you can get intoxicated outside
of prayer time, which is what the abrogation view contends. The inference
by contrast of the actual command in the verse would be "approach activities
other than the prayer while intoxicated" or "approach the prayer while not
intoxicated."!? Neither of these would have a bearing on the act of getting
intoxicated itself.

e This brings into focus an important fact; the command in verse 4:43 is about
prayer, not about intoxication. This can be seen from the continuation of the
verse which mentions another situation where praying is disallowed,

eta ee 5 (3 DAN aN ali GS

Zs
a

[evs Lill] € .. Orcs: Vee &

12The verb that is translated to 'approach' is a conjugation of +: -~ which is a transitive

verb that means to approach, attempt, or engage with. A closely related intransitive verb
% - 43 means to get close.

4. Famous CLAIMS 4.2. INTOXICATION AND PRAYER (4:43)

[4:43] O you who have believed, do not approach prayer while you
are intoxicated until you know what you are saying, nor while you
are sullied (by copulation) unless you are on the road, until you have
bathed ...

The verse thus specifies two situations under which prayers are not allowed
(3d) Giles), as highlighted by Al-Maraghi [69]. One situation is being drunk
and the other is being sullied. If a Muslim is in either of these two situations,
prayer is not allowed. The verse also spells out the conditions for being re-
allowed to pray. In the case of being drunk, the condition is knowing what one
is saying (sobriety) while in the case of being sullied, the condition is bathing
(cleanliness).

There is nothing in the verse that addresses the legitimacy of the activities
that led to being drunk or being sullied. For example, being sullied could be
the result of legitimate sexual activities with one's spouse, or could be the
result of forbidden activities. Permissibility of the activities, or lack thereof, is
not what the verse is about. It is permissibility of praying in these conditions
that the verse is addressing.

In summary, the first view that supports this abrogation claim is based
on a juristic principle of inference by contrast that is not valid, and that is
misapplied even if it were valid. This is a far cry from the standard needed to
claim abrogation, namely the certainty of a conflict between two verses that
cannot be reconciled in any way except by annulling one of the verses. There
is no conflict here in the first place, and the view that creates a conflict uses
an invalid inference, and applies it incorrectly, thus manufacturing a conflict
that does not exist.

A second argument to reconcile the two verses addresses the other view
of claiming abrogation, that obeying the prohibition of drinking alcohol in
verse 5:90 renders the command in verse 4:43 moot since no one will approach
prayer while drunk if they would not drink in the first place. We will show
that this view is flawed.

A simple question shows that verse 4:43 is needed until this very day:
Are there Muslims who drink alcohol? They certainly should not, but this is
not the question. The question is are there Muslims who fail to observe the
prohibition of alcohol? The answer is undeniably yes; there have been, there
are, and there will be Muslims who drink alcohol. This statement is not to
condone such behavior, but to admit an undeniable reality. Hopefully, those
Muslims will repent and stop drinking, but this is not the issue here. The
issue is that Muslims who drink ezist.

Next question: If a Muslim who drinks gets drunk in private and it's prayer
time, is he allowed to pray? Again, we are not condoning this behavior, but
this situation has undoubtedly occurred and will continue to occur in real life.
We are just asking a simple question: is he allowed to pray? Yes or no? The

4. Famous CLAIMS 4.2. INTOXICATION AND PRAYER (4:43)

answer is no because of verse 4:43.

It may be uncomfortable to ask questions that involve disobediences that
we don't want to happen in the first place. However, this is an integral part
of religious rulings. For instance, not fasting in Ramadan while one has no
excuse is a serious offense. Nonetheless, we still ask what should a Muslim do
in this situation, and there is a ready answer in terms of expiation. What to
do when there is disobedience is not an encouragement of disobedience. It's
an admission of reality. If we don't admit it, it doesn't disappear as a result;
it just leaves us not knowing what to do in this situation.

The sensitivity around discussing alcoholic drinks may have also clouded
our understanding of the principle established in verse 4:43, which is that we
need to know what we are saying when we pray. This principle is repeated in
other rulings. The prophet (PBUH) said "If one of you drowses during prayer,
let him sleep until he knows what he is reciting" (acct aI 3 Sas os NI
oan ae _2~).8 Ibn Kathir [163] considers 'not knowing what one is saying'
as the best definition of being intoxicated.

A related situation deals with intoxication that does not involve alcohol
(Al-Ghali [43]). If a Muslim goes under anesthesia for a surgery and remains
drowsy for a while after the surgery, is he allowed to do the prayer in this con-
dition? The answer is no because of the command in verse 4:43. A command
that is to be followed is by definition not abrogated.

We have thus presented two arguments refuting the two views for claiming
abrogation of verse 4:43. They are straightforward arguments, so why did
this claim gain traction? Perhaps one of the factors that persuaded scholars
to support this claim was the story about how the fellows of the Prophet
(PBUH) reacted to verses 4:43 and 5:90, as well as related verse 2:219. This is
a worthwhile point that we will cover in the next step.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

The evidence used to substantiate the claim that verse 4:43 was abrogated
by verse 5:90 is centered around the story of the fellows of the Prophet (PBUH) as
they dealt with the subject of alcoholic beverages before the blanket prohibi-
tion came in verse 5:90. The story involves key figures such as Umar (RA) and
Ali (RA), and is supported by a number of narrations of varying authenticity.
There are enough reliable components of the story (Al-Mazini {70]) to vouch
for its authenticity as a whole. The question here is whether the story does
support the abrogation claim.

The crux of the story is that the Fellows (RA) had struggled with the ques-
tion of drinking alcohol as it was apparent to them that it was not a good
practice, but the religion did not outright forbid it so they continued the

13Narrated by Anas (RA) and rated authentic (qe) by Al-Bukhari [35].

4. Famous CLAIMS 4.2. INTOXICATION AND PRAYER (4:43)

habit of drinking that predated Islam. Umar (RA) in particular had doubts
and kept approaching the Prophet (PBUH) for clarification.

In succession, Quranic verses were revealed that denigrated, then restricted,
then prohibited alcoholic beverages. The story is a vivid example of gradual
legislation that provides a practical way of reversing entrenched habits, as we
discussed in §1.6. The only question relevant to abrogation is whether this
gradual legislation involved annulment of Quranic verses. This is what we
will address here.

Chronologically, the first verse came before verse 4:43 and addressed the
appropriateness of alcoholic beverages without mandating any specific action,

Less ol SS SS Ged JP ills AI ye GEIL >
[609 3a] € gad Se 581
[2:219] They ask you about intoxicants and gambling. Say, "In

them is great sin and [yet, some] benefits for people. But their sin is
bigger than their benefit." ...

This was the first direct indication that intoxicants were questionable from
a religious point of view, but the verse stopped short of restricting them.
Verse 2:219 is sometimes included with verse 4:43 as being abrogated by the
prohibition of alcohol in verse 5:90. The rationale for abrogation, in this case,
is that the prohibition of something conflicts with it having benefits, which
verse 2:219 states. However, having benefits is a statement of fact so it is
not subject to abrogation (the Facts validation rule). There is also nothing
contradictory about prohibiting something that has more harm than good. As
expected, the abrogation claim of verse 2:219 has less traction than that of
verse 4:43.

Verse 4:43 was revealed some time after verse 2:219, and it provided the
first religious restriction on alcohol. The practical impact of verse 4:43 was
that Muslims avoided drinking unless it did not interfere with prayer times.
This is a logical step for someone who wants to continue drinking without
violating the new religious ruling. It is perhaps this practice that gave rise
to the assertion that verse 4:43 allowed drinking outside of prayer times as
a matter of ruling.

There was no such ruling in the verse; the Fellows (RA) did not start drinking
after verse 4:43 was revealed; they continued drinking after it was revealed.
The verse did not rule that drinking is allowed; it just did not rule that
it is disallowed, so the default allowance continued to be what the Fellows
(RA) followed.

Later on, verse 5:90 was revealed and prohibited alcohol altogether. It
was a relief for many Muslims, especially Umar (RA), who have been struggling

4. Famous CLAIMS 4.2. INTOXICATION AND PRAYER (4:43)

with the issue and yearned for a decisive ruling about it. The key issue for the
abrogation question is that the verses before verse 5:90 remained intact; the
statement of fact about the benefits and the sin of intoxicants remains valid,
and the prohibition of prayer while intoxicated remains in force.

Finally, there is one piece of evidence pertaining to this abrogation claim
that is worth addressing. Abu-Dawoud [3] reports a narration by Ibn Abbas
(RA) that states that verses 4:43 and 2:219 were abrogated (using the word
naskh) by verse 5:90. The authenticity of the narration was judged to be
sound, though one narrator in the chain was criticized.' Even if authentic,
the word naskh has been repeatedly used by Ibn Abbas (ra) to refer to general
adjustments rather than actual annulment, and the fact that verse 2:219 is
included by him as abrogated when it is a statement of fact corroborates that
naskh here was not meant as abrogation.

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Here are some of the major pro-abrogation scholars who did not approve
the abrogation claim of verse 4:43.

Al-Razi [83] did not approve this claim based on rejecting inference by
contrast as a juristic principle, as outlined in the first reconciliation argument
above.

Ibn Al-Arabi [144] rejected this claim based on the fact that the prayer
continues to be prohibited in case of intoxication, as outlined in the second
reconciliation argument above.

Al-Ghornati [47] goes further by stating that the majority opinion of schol-
ars is that verse 4:43 is not abrogated (j,,ge>u! us d.Se4).1°

Al-Suyuti [100] approved a list of abrogation claims that excluded this
claim and stated that "claiming abrogation in other verses is not correct."
Al-Zurgani [128] rejected abrogation claims outside Al-Suyuti's list (and even
rejected some within the list), thus rejecting this claim.

F) Conclusion:

The reconciliation of verses 4:43 and 5:90 is straightforward since the per-
ceived conflict is based on an indirect inference rather than conflicting words
that need to be reconciled. Put together, the parts about alcoholic bever-
ages in the two verses, which are the subject of the abrogation claim, say to

M4Narration number 3672. The narrator in the chain that was criticized is Ali ibn Al-
Hussein Ibn Waqid (43l5 oy Gell cy (te). More on him in Appendix A.3.

15The use of the word pod (secure or taut) to mean not abrogated is standard in the
literature.

4. FAMOUS CLAIMS 4.3. FASTING EXEMPTION (2:184)

Muslims:

Alcoholic beverages are prohibited. If someone becomes intox-
icated by violating this prohibition or by other means, they are
forbidden from doing the prayer until they know what they are
saying.

This straightforward reconciliation would refute the abrogation claim even if
the burden of proof for abrogation was not as high as it is. With the high
burden of proof, there is no doubt left.

4.3 Fasting Exemption (2:184)

This is one of only three abrogation claims that are mentioned in narrations
which are considered certain in sourcing as we demonstrate in Appendix A.3.
Tronically, this claim has one set of narrations that supports it and another
set that rejects it (see page 358). The claim is about exemptions from the
fasting requirement in Ramadan, so it impacts the practical life of Muslims.
It addresses the question of what Muslims can do if they find hardship in
observing the Ramadan fast.

A) The claim:

In verse 2:184, one of the exemptions from the fasting requirement, other
than being sick or traveling, deals with endurance,

[VAS 82 .. CySes cab i555 45 gabe'
[2:184] ... So whoever among you is ill or on a journey - then

[substitute] an equal number of other days. And upon those who
would endure [the fast] - a ransom of feeding a poor person ...

This endurance exemption is claimed to be abrogated by the following verse
which mandates fasting in the month of Ramadan with exemptions for the
sick and traveling, but with no mention of other exemptions.

oD

Sab ho Je jl ans OB ag tds 5B Ee yt YS.

[\Ao : 8 aI] aes atl oF

[2:185] ... So whoever attains the month [of Ramadan], he is to

fast it; and whoever is ill or on a journey - then [substitute] an equal
number of other days ....

4. Famous CLAIMS 4.3. FASTING EXEMPTION (2:184)

This claim is supported by a narration attributed to Ibn Abbas (RA) (see
narrations 8 and 12 in Appendix A.3). Many scholars support the claim,
including Al-Nahhas [71], Ibn Salama [170], Makki [184], Ibn Al-Jawzi [147],
Al-Karmi [60], and Al-Suyuti [100].

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The perceived conflict is that verse 2:185 mandates fasting in Ramadan and
mentions exemptions from fasting that were also mentioned in verse 2:184, but
it does not mention the exemption for "those who would endure [the fast]"'°
that was included in verse 2:184, thus implying that this exemption is no
longer allowed.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

There is a logical reason why the endurance exemption is mentioned in
verse 2:184, but not mentioned in verse 2:185. The reason becomes apparent
when we look more closely at the two verses. Verse 2:184 is addressing the duty
to fast. Verse 2:185 is addressing the timing of the fast. Therefore, verse 2:184
lists exemptions related to this duty, while verse 2:185 only lists exemptions
related to the timing aspect. Here is the context of the first verse,

4 ol ESS} al 2ale CoS ighal gall Lal &
4 lea au Of 83 mikyneys jaa Vly
a oie fb 1a 45,8 as Spill es 5 SBl all js es ao Je
[\At-VAW: 3 2)

[2:183-184] O you who have believed, decreed upon you is fasting

as it was decreed upon those before you so that you may become
pious - a limited number of days, so whoever among you is ill or on
a journey - then [substitute] an equal number of other days. And

upon those who would endure [the fast] - a ransom of feeding a poor
person ...

wy

Here, the duty of fasting is instituted on Muslims like it was instituted on their
predecessors in previous scripture, without specifying the exact timing of the
fast. Al-Qurtubi [80] addresses what the clause "as it was decreed upon those
before you" refers to, and presents several views that it refers to the duty to
fast. Ibn Ashur [153] concurs, saying that it establishes the original duty of
fasting, not the details.

Therefore, what we know from these verses is that we are required to fast
certain days that are not yet specified. Given that, the relevant exemptions

16Details about what 'endure' means in this exemption are discussed in side note 14.

4. Famous CLAIMS 4.3. FASTING EXEMPTION (2:184)

here correspond to the difficulty of fasting at all, and the temporary difficulty
of fasting on particular days. These are precisely what the exemptions in
verse 2:184 address, which include the endurance exemption for the difficulty
of fasting at all.

In contrast, verse 2:185 addresses the timing of the fast and exemptions
from that timing, now that the duty has been established;

SAB G2 GIES LW Ab STA) 4.3 Spl call Glass 548

Bha8 20 fe 5h Les SE G25 Ae 54 EN 2 be Sg h 35 OB sally

[yao 3,2] { ... 581 atl jy

[2:185] .... The month of Ramadan in which the Quran was re-

vealed, a guidance for the people and clear proofs of guidance and

criteria - so whoever attains [that] month, he is to fast it; and who-

ever is ill or on a journey - then [substitute] an equal number of other
days ...

The verse tells us when to fast, so the relevant exemptions are those related to
the temporary difficulties in fasting at that particular time, such as being ill
or on a journey where fasting can be postponed. An exemption that addresses
the difficulty of fasting in general is not relevant to the timing, since fasting
will remain difficult even if it is postponed.

This is the reason why the verse states the exemptions of being sick or
traveling. These exemptions only postpone the fast and hence are related to
its timing. The endurance exemption is related to the difficulty of fasting in
general, so it need not be repeated here. It remains a valid exemption from
the duty, not the timing.

The structure of the two verses also supports this contrast between duty
and timing. The object in verses 2:183-184 is the fast itself (atuall wwe cS)
while the object in verse 2:185 is Ramadan (42.238 ... §l2%5 425), which is
the timing.

A second argument is put forward by Zeid [206]. He interprets 'endure'
in verse 2:184 as implying a hardship, then notes that verse 2:185 which is
claimed to be the abrogating verse states that

[\Ao: 3 al] € i pea = nee Ye eal = 4a \ nee ast
[2:185] ... God wants ease for you, and does not want hardship
for you ...

which does not mesh with abrogating an exemption for hardship, namely the
endurance exemption. Indeed, this point may outweigh the fact that the en-

4. FAMouS CLAIMS 4.3. FASTING EXEMPTION (2:184)

durance exemption is not repeated!" in verse 2:185. After all, other exemptions
to fasting are also absent from the verse but are indisputably valid. For exam-
ple, women do not fast during their menstrual period. This condition is not
mentioned in verse 2:185, but it is universally accepted as a valid exemption
by Islamic scholars.

These are the two main reconciliation arguments. Most of the other argu-
ments in the literature focus on the meaning of 'would endure' in verse 2:184,
which we will address in the next step.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

Al-Tabari [107] cites an opinion by a number of scholars that the endurance
exemption in verse 2:184 was valid for the elderly while they can fast then it
was abrogated (the word he used is naskh) except if they are unable to fast;
"then that ruling that was for them before the abrogation would be at that
point confirmed for them as it was" (wu endl fs Lag) IS vill reel WS ggXd
Shey de> LJ).

It is clear that the word naskh is not used here in the sense of abroga-
tion since the statement is that the ruling is still valid in some cases. Similar
discussions appear in numerous books, and there are narrations from key per-
sonalities about what the endurance exemption encompasses, so their focus is
on the scope of the endurance exemption rather than its annulment.

There is indeed subtlety in interpreting the word 'endure' here. It is clear
that enduring something implies that it can be done. It is also clear that the
word has the connotation of difficulty in doing it. This applies to the original
Arabic word 43 as well (Al-Khatib [61]), which can also be translated to
'bear' or 'withstand'.

The different interpretations of the word, all the way to inferring that
it actually means 'cannot endure', led Asad [130] to describe some of these
interpretations as "conflicting and sometimes highly laboured". Because this
is the clear focus of many discussions of the abrogation claim, we will address
it notwithstanding that it has no direct bearing on the abrogation question
itself.18

Unlike prayers where one can pray while sitting or even lying down if one
becomes weaker, fasting is binary; you either fast or you don't. If you become
weaker, you cannot fast for a shorter period or partially fast but drink water
for example.

17 Another situation where exemptions are not repeated but remain valid is discussed in
side note 15.

18The meaning of 'endure' has no bearing on the abrogation claim because the claim
is about whether the 'endure' exemption was abrogated, regardless of what that exactly
entails. See side note 14 for a detailed discussion.

4. Famous CLAIMS 4.3. FASTING EXEMPTION (2:184)

Therefore, the personal judgment that fasting has become too much of
a hardship is agonizing for a pious Muslim, since it means no fasting at all.
This is a bigger leap of faith than partial easing of a duty. The choice of the
word 'endure' rather than outright 'incapable' allows a pious Muslim to break
the fast in good conscience when the burden becomes really heavy for them.
However, it is not an open license. The allowance is balanced by the closing
sentence in verse 2:184 after the endurance exemption is given:

[At ral f Gyles 225' baad 85 1405 ls

[2:184] ... But to fast is best for you, if you only knew.

thus giving pious Muslims a good reason to try to fast and not abuse the
license. As Al-Khatib [61] phrases it, "This is what holds the balance from
tilting toward breaking the fast for those with excuses".

Finally, some scholars have cited historical events as evidence to support
this abrogation claim. They point out that there was a change over time in how
early Muslims fasted, and they associate this change with the transition from
verse 2:184 to verse 2:185. Historically, fasting was optional for Muslims when
it was initially assigned,!® then became required when it moved to Ramadan.
While this may be true, the historical timing of the old and new fast does not
match the timing of revelation of verses 2:184-185.

In one account, the old fast had started seventeen months before the new
fast (Al-Baghawi [23]). Verses 2:184-185 are consecutive in revelation, with no
evidence that there was nearly a sufficient time gap between them. Ibn Ashur
[153] spells out the time line in detail, making it clear that verse 2:184 could
not have instituted the old fast. Therefore, using the optional nature of the old
fast to support the claim that verse 2:184 was abrogated is inconsistent with
the historical time line. Ibn Ashur also asserts that the majority of scholars
see the "limited number of days" (lSqiaxa Gl) mentioned in verse 2:184 as
a reference to Ramadan, not to the old fast. Other scholars concur, e.g.,
Al-Maraghi [69].

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

A number of prominent pro-abrogation scholars did not approve this claim.
For example, Al-Qurtubi [80] concludes that there is no abrogation, citing
a narration by Ibn Abbas (RA) saying "it is not abrogated" (4+ gu cud),
which was authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35].

Waliyullah [203] rejects the abrogation claim based on a different interpre-
tation. He asserts that the object of 'endure' in verse 2:184 is not the fast, but

19Fasting was observed for three days each month as well as on the 10th day of Muharram,
the first month of the hijri calendar.

4. Famous CLAIMS 4.4. DEBAUCHERY PENALTY (4:15-16)

the ability to feed a poor person. Asad [130] concurs. This is linguistically
possible since the object of 'endure' is not explicit in the verse. Waliyullah
concludes that what is referred to is zakat-ul-fitr, the charity given by Muslims
before the end of Ramadan.

Zeid [206] rejects the claim based mainly on the 'ease not hardship' state-
ment in verse 2:185 that we discussed in the second reconciliation argument
of Step C. The same point about ease and hardship was mentioned by other
scholars as well. Al-Arid [20] also rejects the claim citing the opinions of
a number of scholars.

F) Conclusion:

The reconciliation of verses 2:184 and 2:185 is based on explaining why
the endurance exemption from fasting was not repeated while still being valid.
The two verses together say to Muslims:

Fasting is required of Muslims during Ramadan. Those who
are sick or traveling may postpone the fast to other days, and
those who suffer hardship in fasting may feed a poor person
instead.

4.4 Debauchery Penalty (4:15-16)

This claim has legal consequences as it pertains to punitive measures for acts
of debauchery. It is one of the more widely accepted claims by pro-abrogation
scholars. Outside of the verses in the claim, there are narrations and traditions
of varying authenticity that also deal with debauchery. Trying to put these
different pieces together has significantly affected how scholars approached this
abrogation claim.

A) The claim:

Verses 4:15-16, which specify punitive measures for what they refer to as
the 'abhorrent act' (4a>W))),

o 4 he 8555 pret Ag hSil6 22 SS ye AES) Gol GW
5 i Gos Sh Spd BES B ot g AKG ys op
Logie 1b fb ELoly UE OG Lays 2a lst glallly @ WS
[\1-\o: sLisSI] rf oe} BIS Of rat oO}
[4:15-16] Those among your women who engage in the abhorrent
act, seek testimony against them from four [witnesses] among you,

4. Famous CLAIMS 4.4. DEBAUCHERY PENALTY (4:15-16)

and if they testify, confine them (the guilty women) in the homes
until death recalls them or God makes for them a way out e And the
two (masculine) who engage in it (abhorrent act) among you, hurt
them both. But if they repent and correct themselves, leave them
alone. Indeed, God is ever Accepting of repentance and Merciful.

are claimed to be abrogated by verse 24:2, which specifies the penalty for
fornication,?°

[6 yplll € 3D BL Gs oly KI MEU S15 A515)

[24:2] The fornicating woman and the fornicating man - flog each
of them a hundred lashes ...

This claim has been supported by many scholars over the centuries, e.g.,
Al-Nahhas [71], Al-Thaalabi [110], Al-Baghawi [23], Ibn Al-Jawzi [147], Ibn
Kathir [163], Al-Maqdesi [68], and Ibn Ashur [153], but there is a wide variety
in their opinions and in the specifics of what exactly abrogated what. The
claim is one of only five claims that Zeid [206] approved.

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The perceived conflict is based on the assumption that the abhorrent act
that verses 4:15-16 refer to is fornication (between a man and a woman, that
is). This would create a conflict with verse 24:2 which specifies a different
penalty for fornication.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

Reconciling the verses of this abrogation claim is quite straightforward.
The clearest interpretation of the verses based on their own wording shows no
conflict at all. The perceived conflict stems from other evidence outside of the
verses themselves that scholars sought to reconcile with what the verses say.
Because of this, we will divide the discussion into two parts. In this step, we
will present the interpretation that reconciles the verses. In the next step, we
will turn to the other evidence and discuss it in detail.

The reconciliation hinges on whether the word eceari (abhorrent act) in
verse 4:15 could be referring to an offense other than fornication. If it could,
the reconciliation would be immediate as verse 24:2 explicitly addresses forni-
cation only.

20The Arabic word J that we are translating to 'fornication' denotes illegitimate het-
erosexual intercourse, including adultery. We are using 'fornication' for simplicity only.

4. Famous CLAIMS 4.4. DEBAUCHERY PENALTY (4:15-16)

point to ponder

What if fornication is also a legitimate interpretation of the abhor-
rent act in verses 4:15-16? Given two possible interpretations, the
burden of proof for abrogation claims (§2.2) mandates that the rec-
onciliatory interpretation prevails, even if the other interpretation
is also possible.

The first observation is that the word Abo til (abhorrent act) is used for
meanings other than fornication in the Quran itself. Most notably, it is used
to describe homosexual acts:

Ge Sl be le pe GLa stl ej Je) Ed; >
Cp cP Fel Mod Seipet SM OS es) B allel
[A\-Av : LMI]
[(7:80-81] And Lot when he said to his people, "Do you commit
the abhorrent act? No one has preceded you with it in the worlds.

Indeed, you engage with men desirously, instead of women, withal you
are a transgressing people."

Notice that the verse spells out engaging desirously with the same gender
instead of the opposite gender, leaving no doubt that the highlighted word
is being used to refer to homosexual acts. This is identically the same word
in verses 4:15-16, mentioned explicitly in verse 4:15 then referenced again in

verse 4:16 (tats - engage in it).

e With this in mind, is the rest of the wording in verses 4:15-16 consistent with
the offense in question being homosexual acts? It is not only consistent but
quite befitting. This is far more than what is needed for reconciliation given
the burden of proof for abrogation claims. Let us go through the wording in
detail.

Verse 4:15 unambiguously talks about women. All the pronouns used are
feminine. Therefore, the offense being addressed is one committed by women.
It is therefore possible that this is about female homosexual acts. Not the only
possibility, but a possibility.

Although the offense in question is committed by women, it is conceivable
that it is committed with men (fornication), and the verse is just addressing
how women who are involved in that offense should be dealt with. However,
the wording of verse 4:16 goes against that possibility. Here is why.

The reason is that verse 4:16, which talks about the same offense (get -

engage in it), uses the pronoun ola to refer to its subjects. This masculine

4. Famous CLAIMS 4.4. DEBAUCHERY PENALTY (4:15-16)

pronoun denotes two people, either two males or one male and one female. If
the offense referred to in 4:15 is fornication, then the pronoun in 4:16 must
be referring to one man and one woman. If, on the other hand, the offense is
about homosexual acts, then the pronoun must be referring to two men.

Now, if a woman is included in the pronoun of verse 4:16, then the mandate
of the verse applies to her as well. This would contradict the mandate about
women in verse 4:15. Here is the contradiction. Verse 4:16 instructs us to leave
the two offenders alone (Kgs |.) if they repent and correct their ways,
whereas verse 4:15 specifies house arrest with no direct reference to repentance
as a way to end it.

Being left alone, as verse 4:16 mandates, is not compatible with being pre-
vented from leaving the home, as verse 4:15 mandates. Even Al-Suyuti [104],
who partially approves the abrogation claim, firmly excludes the possibility
that women are included in verse 4:16.

It is not impossible to try to argue that both verses apply to women, or
that they apply to women and men separately but are not about homosexual
acts. However, such an argument would be highly labored. While a labored
argument may be tolerated in some contexts, it is out of the question that
the reconciliation of an abrogation claim would be excluded using a labored
argument.

Indeed, the burden of proof means that all that is needed for reconciliation
is a viable interpretation, or as pro-abrogation scholar Al-Zurqani [128] phrases
it, "any facet of interpretation" (_b gis 25-9 Cp aay Gi). The reconciliatory
interpretation we presented is not only viable but in fact the most compelling.

To summarize, verse 4:15 addresses an abhorrent act committed by women.
Once it is clear that the abhorrent act in verse 4:16 involves two men, and
knowing that the offense is the same as the offense in 4:15 because of the
wording of the verses, the logical conclusion is that the offense in both verses
is that of homosexual acts. Since the other verse in the claim, verse 24:2,
explicitly talks about fornication, there is no conflict between the verses and
the abrogation claim is refuted.

Interpreting verses 4:15-16 as addressing homosexual acts is attributed
to Al-Asfahani (Al-Razi [83]). Other scholars who support this interpretation
include Rida [193], Al-Madani [66], Al-Bahiyy [25], and Al-Khatib [61], among
others. There are also variations of this interpretation that were put forward
by Jumaa [182] and Afana [7] to reconcile the verses.

The interpretation is also acknowledged by various pro-abrogation scholars.
Al-Ghornati [47] starts his commentary on the verses with this interpretation,
then details the arguments that support it. AlShaarawi [92] approves this
interpretation and discusses it in detail. Al-Zamakhshari [124] acknowledges
this interpretation, and so does Al-Baydawi [31]. Al-Suyuti [104] concludes

4. Famous CLAIMS 4.4. DEBAUCHERY PENALTY (4:15-16)

that verse 4:16 is talking about homosexual acts in no uncertain terms.

e There is an additional, subtle point about verses 4:15-16. The verses use
present-tense forms of the verb ol (engage in). This means that the offenses
are current, rather than something that was committed only in the past and
then stopped.

The verses are focused on preventing further offenses, as the remedy in the
verses is corrective in nature rather than just punitive. Both verses allow for

an end to the corrective action, in 4:16 it is Kgs eyat Fame GG Sb (if they
repent and correct themselves, leave them alone), and in 4:15 it is ay jes i

pee . (or God makes for them a way out). Al-Zamakhshari [124] and others
suggest that the way out is marriage.

point of interest

It can be argued that the 'way out' of house arrest that verse 4:15
mentions may actually be a favorable outcome such as marriage
for example. However, as we will see in the next step, the entire
case for abrogation is built around a drastically different assertion
about the 'way out'.

By contrast, verse 24:2 addresses an offense that happened already (Al-
Tabari [107]). It does not matter if it no longer happens. The prescribed
action is punitive in nature; it is mandated even if the offenders have already
repented and corrected their ways. Why? Fornication, the subject of the
verse, has consequences that homosexual acts, the subject of the other verses,
do not have.

Fornication can lead to children out of wedlock, and it can lead to pa-
ternity mixups. These consequences happen regardless of whether those who
fornicated have repented. By contrast, homosexual acts do not have these
tangible consequences. They impact society, but that impact can be remedied
by stopping the practice, which is the focus of verses 4:15-16.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

As we have seen, it is straightforward to reconcile the verses of this abroga-
tion claim based on their wording. The reason the claim gained traction has to
do with additional evidence outside the verses themselves. The main evidence
is a Prophetic narration together with Prophetic traditions that scholars tried
to reconcile with the verses, leading to this claim of abrogation among other
things.

What is unique about the body of evidence in this case is that it covers
broader issues than just what the verses say. Whether the abrogation claim

4. Famous CLAIMS 4.4. DEBAUCHERY PENALTY (4:15-16)

is valid is only one piece of the debate that this evidence invokes. Trying to
reconcile the entire body of evidence to come up with a compelling, coherent
conclusion has proved evasive — with or without the abrogation claim.

The efforts to reconcile the evidence are abundant in the literature. For
example, Al-Khazen [62] discusses many differing opinions that are derived
from that evidence, and so does Al-Nahhas [71]. Ibn Al-Arabi [145] describes
the interpretation of verse 4:15 as "a difficult riddle among verses, that I found
no one who grasps it" (aa cy sel eo oly 2 thes). All are pro-abrogation
scholars.

The subject at hand is the abrogation claim itself, rather than the broader
issues, important as they may be. Therefore, we are going to focus on the
evidence that directly pertains to the claim. The single most important piece
of this evidence is a Prophetic narration about fornication?! whose wording
is linked to the wording of verse 4:15. This link compelled many scholars to
conclude that the verse is talking about fornication as well.

The narration in question was included by Muslim [189] who judged its
chain of narration to be reliable. Let us look at the narration first, then
analyze it in detail.

The Prophet (PBUH) is quoted as saying "Take after me, take after me
- God has made for them [females] a way out, a maiden by maiden [gets]
a hundred lashes and a year in exile, and a non-maiden?? by a non-maiden
[gets] a hundred lashes and stoning." (Me cpg) all Jae 8 ce Ide ce Ide
prdly Ble Mee aly ally dae Cy BL le SY SI).

The link of this narration to the current abrogation claim is that the word-
ing "God has made for them a way out" that it uses matches the wording in
verse 4:15 "or God makes for them a way out". The Quran does not use the
expression "making for them a way out" in the feminine anywhere else. This
makes it compelling that the narration is referring to what verse 4:15 said.

However, the role of the narration in this discussion is not that it abro-
gated? verse 4:15. The wording of the narration elaborates verse 4:15 rather
than conflicts with it since it provides details about the 'way out' that were
not included in verse 4:15, without contradicting anything the verse said.

Indeed, the role of the narration in the abrogation claim is that it is used
as evidence that verse 4:15 is talking about fornication, not homosexual acts.
This creates a conflict with verse 24:2 which explicitly talks about fornication

21The narration does not explicitly mention fornication, but it is universally interpreted
as being about fornication.

22The Arabic word —% which we translated to 'non-maiden' technically means someone
who consummated a legitimate marriage at some point.

?3Even those who accept that narrations can abrogate the Quran recognize that this
is a singles narration, thus uncertain in sourcing. This means that it cannot abrogate
something that is certain in sourcing like the Quran.

4. Famous CLAIMS 4.4. DEBAUCHERY PENALTY (4:15-16)

but prescribes a different punishment. It is this role that we are focusing on
here because it is used as evidence against the otherwise obvious reconciliation
argument.

A closer look reveals a number of significant discrepancies about this nar-
ration which raise legitimate concerns. We will address these factors in detail,
one at a time.

1. Sourcing:

This narration is uncertain in sourcing (a singles narration). Its most
credible sourcing was documented by Muslim [189], a major scholar. However,
one of the narrators in the chain that he documented has a questionable record
in terms of the narrations that he conveyed. This narrator is Al-Hasan Al-
Basri. He was a respected scholar, but when it comes to narrations that he
conveyed, there are widespread reservations about them.

Two of the foremost scholars in evaluating the credibility of narrators have
very unflattering words about Al-Basri. Ibn Hajar [157] used technical terms
to say that Al-Basri often quoted people he did not hear from and concealed
weaknesses in his narration chains (Saby ies ez olf). S. Al-Zahabi [120]
says that Al-Basri "is an imposer whose words are not to be taken as evidence
from those he has not met, and he may impose from those he met" (8 (p+ 58
AB) epee pty by CAS o oP eb Ke gy eu): Other books include examples
of narrations by Al-Basri whose sourcing was impeached.

More pointedly, Al-Shafei [93] impeaches Al-Basri's sourcing in the very
narration we are addressing. In the version reported by Muslim [189], Al-
Basri narrates from a middle man who quotes the person who heard the
Prophet (PBUH). Commenting on the narration, Al-Shafei says that he was
told by a trustworthy person that Al-Basri used to insert that middle man in
the chain (_.46)! gle> babe cpg ay JEL UIT Croll ol dal >). Notice that
Al-Shafei was half a century closer in time to Al-Basri than Muslim was.

The narration is not the only questionable point by Al-Basri about verse
4:15. He also claims, without providing evidence, that verse 4:15 was revealed
after verse 4:16 and is contingent upon it. Al-Razi [83] describes this view
as "extremely remote" (taJ\ 4lé (3), and most scholars don't even mention
it. The view is patently wrong as it goes against the syntax of the verses.
Verse 4:16 uses the word gist (engage in it) that refers to the word 42>W)\
(abhorrent act) in verse 4:15, so it cannot have been revealed before it.

2. Content:

A close examination of the wording (.xJ) of the narration raises further
issues about whether it was accurately narrated.

4. Famous CLAIMS 4.4. DEBAUCHERY PENALTY (4:15-16)

¢ The narration explicitly refers to women (.,¢)), with no explicit men-
tion of men. While it is linguistically customary to use the masculine
when the subject is both men and women, this feminine word is never
linguistically used to cover both men and women.

Extrapolating to men is further complicated by the fact that the nar-
ration references verse 4:15 which sets rules for women that are different
from those set for men in verse 4:16, so there is no basis for claiming
that the rules would be the same for men and women. This raises doubt
about the accuracy of the wording in a narration that is universally
interpreted as setting the rules for both men and women.

e Other reported traditions raise further doubt about the accuracy of the
wording. What was reported that the Prophet (PBUH) did in practice
when a fornication offense occurred in the community does not agree with
what the narration says, as the hundred lashes for the non-maiden were
not administered (Ibn Al-Arabi [145], Al-Thaalibi [111], and others).

The fact that a punishment specified by the narration was not ad-
ministered made Al-Tabari [107] question the accuracy of this narration.
After considering the statements and opinions of various scholars, he
came to the conclusion that there was "clear evidence about the weak-
ness of the narration that was conveyed from Al-Hasan [AI-Basri]" (°|3>
cool oF $9) GM perl olay de Bol)).

The exile punishment for the maiden, also specified by the narration,
created another dilemma for scholars. If the narration is accurate, this
exile is explicitly mandated and the wording is about women. However,
many scholars still opined against the exile (Al-Maqdesi [68}).

The dilemma that the scholars faced seems to be that it makes no
sense to expel an unmarried woman for a year away from her family
under these circumstances. Doesn't that subject her to more sin? If she
sinned while she was living with her family and under their protection,
what can we expect if she is away without that protection?

e Another problem is that the wording of the narration deals with spe-
cific combinations of those who commit the offense it is talking about,
namely 'a maiden by a maiden' and 'a non-maiden by a non-maiden'.
The narration does not address what happens when one of the offenders
is a maiden and the other is a non-maiden. It is doubtful that a matter
of life or death would be left out to guesswork rather than being spelled
out. Again, the accuracy of the wording is suspect.

Why would a serious matter like this be worded with so many blatant discrep-
ancies? It is highly suspect that what the narration conveys is an accurate
quote of something that the Prophet (PBUH) actually said.

4. Famous CLAIMS 4.4. DEBAUCHERY PENALTY (4:15-16)

3. Chronology:

Even if we conceded that the narration was authentic and accurate, either
the Prophet (PBUH) said those words before verse 24:2 was revealed to him, or
else he said them after the verse was revealed. Under either scenario, there is
a fundamental dilemma in explaining the narration and the verse together.

If the narration came after verse 24:2, as Zeid [206] and most scholars
assert, the opening words of the narration would not fit. If verses 4:15-16 are
talking about fornication and verse 24:2 abrogated them with the penalty for
fornication set to a hundred lashes, pro-abrogation scholars see this as the 'way
out' of the house arrest that verse 4:15 had prescribed. While a hundred lashes
is no easy punishment, it is possible to see it as a way out of life imprisonment.

Now, here is the dilemma. Coming after verse 24:2 was revealed, the
narration would be elaborating on that verse with details about the penalty
for maidens versus non-maidens. How could this role fit the opening part
of the narration about making a way out? The way out of the permanent
house arrest of verse 4:15 was already in place through verse 24:2. What the
narration does is mandate harsher penalties for both maiden and non-maiden
compared to what verse 24:2 prescribes. How could this be a way out? A way
out of what?

The exact wording further exacerbates the dilemma. Verse 4:15 does not
only mention a way out, but it says that the way out is for the women (_,¢J)
not against them (.¢Je). Contrast that with the use of 'against' earlier in
the same verse when it says "seek testimony against them" (See \gdgtents).
Such contrast between for and against is used elsewhere in the Quran when it
describes the accounting of each soul, "... for it is what it has earned, and against
it is what it has brought upon itself ..." if avteenes (1G gle; Eg25 a ig ar ®
[SA : 8251].

Al-Ghornati [47], among many pro-abrogation scholars, raises this issue.
A harsher penalty for those women would be against them not for them. We
are not questioning the penalty itself here. We are only questioning the de-
scription of a harsher penalty as 'a way out for them' when the lighter penalty
in verse 24:2 had already provided a way out from the life imprisonment that
verse 4:15 prescribed.

The other possibility for the chronology also presents its own dilemma. If
the narration came before verse 24:2, it would no longer be an elaboration
of the verse but would be superseded by the ruling in the verse. Most schol-
ars reject this possibility based on other evidence. Therefore, the narration
presents a dilemma if we assume it came before verse 24:2 and presents an-
other dilemma if we assume it came after 24:2. This raises doubt about the
narration itself.

In addition, which one came before the other is not certain. For example,

4. Famous CLAIMS 4.4. DEBAUCHERY PENALTY (4:15-16)

Al-Razi [83] reports disagreements about which one came first. Al-Bukhari [35]
and Muslim [189] report a narration where a Fellow of the Prophet (PBUH) was
asked whether Chapter 24 came before or after stoning events for adulterers,
and he answered that he did not know. That question was apparently asked to
ascertain which penalty supersedes which, the practice of stoning supported
by the narration or the flogging penalty specified in verse 24:2.

Actually, it is not the time of revelation of Chapter 24 (53! 8,,«) as a whole
that matters here. The key is when verse 24:2 in particular was revealed.
The verses of Chapter 24 were revealed separately on multiple occasions. For
instance, there are 3 distinct events that are reported as circumstances of rev-
elation for verses 24:3, 24:6-9, and 24:11 (Al-Wahidi [116]). By most accounts,
these three events happened approximately in the 2nd, 9th, and 5th hijri years,
respectively. For example, verses 24:6-9 are tied to an event in the 9th hijri
year (Ibn Ashur [153]).

Not only does this show that the revelation of Chapter 24 was spread over
several years, but it also shows that the order of verses in the Chapter does
not match the chronological order of their revelation. Therefore, the time
of revelation of verse 24:2 cannot be narrowed down by the verse number.
Neither can the time be pinned down by a specific event, as both Al-Wahidi
[116] and Al-Mazini [70] did not attach verse 24:2 to any historical event in
their books about circumstances of revelation.

Putting all of these points together, the lack of reliability in what Al-Basri
narrated comes on top of the concerns about the wording of the narration and
its timing. The accuracy of this narration is, therefore, in serious doubt.

This narration is used to support the abrogation claim by undermining the
reconciliation of the verses. The words "God has made for them a way out"
in the narration reinforce the interpretation of verse 4:15 as conflicting with
verse 24:2. With the accuracy of the narration in doubt, it falls far short of
the burden of proof needed to side with conflict over reconciliation.

The other evidence that supports the abrogation claim is based on narra-
tions and historical reports about penalties for homosexual acts that go against
the reconciliation argument (Zeid [206|). The evidence is not consistent,?4
and none of it is certain in sourcing, so it cannot overrule the reconciliation
of an abrogation claim per the burden of proof. There are many other pieces
of evidence related to what the punishment for fornication is, but they do not
impact the abrogation claim itself one way or the other.

24For instance, a narration sets the penalty for male homosexual acts then a report says
that the fellows of the Prophet (PBUH) did not agree what that penalty should be (Zeid
[206]).

4. FAMOUS CLAIMS 4.5. THOUGHT ACCOUNTABILITY (2:284)

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Pro-abrogation scholar Al-Razi [83] defended the reconciliation interpre-
tation of Al-Asfahani in great detail. This reconciliation, which interpreted
verses 4:15-16 as addressing homosexual acts, was widely adopted by many
scholars, e.g., Shaltout [198], Al-Madani [66], Al-Bahiyy [25], and Rida [193]
who documented the opinions of Muhammad Abduh. Al-Shaarawi [92] also
chose the interpretation that verses 4:15-16 are about homosexual acts, which
reconciles the verses in the claim.

Pro-abrogation scholar Waliyullah [203] did not approve this abrogation
claim. Each of pro-abrogation scholars Ibn Al-Arabi and Al-Suyuti rejected
'half' the claim, with Ibn Al-Arabi [145] rejecting the abrogation of verse 4:15
while Al-Suyuti [104] rejected the abrogation of verse 4:16.

Finally, According to Al-Tabari [107] and others, early scholar Mujahid in-
terpreted verse 4:16 as talking about "the two men who do it" (g%«W) od 3\),
an apparently tactful way of referring to homosexual acts, thus reconciling
this verse with verse 24:2. Because he was not explicit about it, some scholars
argued in a rather labored way that "the two men who do it" is not about
homosexual acts, but about (heterosexual) fornication.

F) Conclusion:

The reconciliation of verses 4:15-16 with verse 24:2 leads to a consistent
set of rules:

Islam enforces rules against debauchery. Female homosexual
acts are punished by house arrest and male homosexual acts are
punished by hurting the perpetrators, with provisions for end-
ing these punishments. Illegitimate heterosexual intercourse is
punished by a hundred lashes for both females and males.

4.5 Thought Accountability (2:284)

This is a famous claim that sounds meritorious on the surface, but it is
refutable on several grounds. It deals with the question of whether people
may be accountable for their thoughts.

A) The claim:

The following verse:

4. FAMOUS CLAIMS 4.5. THOUGHT ACCOUNTABILITY (2:284)

$s 32% »

[VA sa AN] {A 4 Sah Sh 5h 2a ST GL AS ls |.

[2:284] .... and whether you show what is within yourselves or
conceal it, God will hold you accountable according to it...

has been claimed to be abrogated by a subsequent verse:

fee OG ee GG ie ees
[SA0: 3 a1]
[2:286] God does not charge a soul except [with that within] its

capacity. For it is what it has earned, and against it is what it has
brought upon itself ...

by key early Muslims according to Ibn Al-Jawzi [147], including Ali (Ra) and
Ibn Masoud (RA). It is also supported by Al-Sadusi [84], Ibn Salama [170],
Al-Suyuti [100], and Al-Qattan [78], among others.

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The perceived conflict is based on interpreting "for it is what it has earned,
and against it is what it has brought upon itself" in verse 2:286 as restricting our
accountability to deeds that we actually carry out, while interpreting verse
2:284 as including thoughts that are not accompanied by deeds in our ac-
countability. This presumption of conflict is bolstered by the start of verse
2:286, "God does not charge a soul except [with that within] its capacity", since
controlling thoughts is seen as beyond our capacity.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

The first argument against this abrogation claim presents a direct reconcil-
iation between the two verses. The wording of verse 2:284 about God holding

us accountable with respect to thought uses the preposition 4 (according
to the thought) rather than the preposition "ale" (for the thought). If it was
for the thought, the offense would be the thought itself that would be pun-
ished independently of any accompanying deed, and that would fall under the

perceived conflict with verse 2:286.

However, the wording "according to it" in the verse means that the account-
ing depends on the thought in a way similar to how the punishment for a crime
would depend on the intention. The severity of how the deed is accounted for
depends on the type of thought that led to that deed. Therefore, there is no
conflict even if verse 2:286 is interpreted to exclude pure thought.

The same preposition "." (according to) appears in a related, authentic

4. FAMOUS CLAIMS 4.5. THOUGHT ACCOUNTABILITY (2:284)

Prophetic narration?' that says "Deeds are [accounted for] according to in-
tentions" (StL LEN Lil). Intentions are certainly among the things that
we can conceal within ourselves, and that makes the narration consistent with
this interpretation of verse 2:284.

A second argument, adopted by Al-Tabari [107] and others, interprets
verse 2:284 as a follow-up to the preceding verses 2:282-283 which prohibit
withholding testimony. The passage "whether you show what is within yourselves
or conceal it, God will hold you accountable according to it" in verse 2:284 is
then interpreted as elaborating that prohibition. This would make the subject
matters of verses 2:284 and 2:286 of the abrogation claim unrelated, thus
eliminating the conflict altogether. A narration attributed to Ibn Abbas (Ra)
(Al-Tabari [107]) is cited to support this interpretation.

A third argument also reconciles the verses by focusing on something
important that we hold within ourselves. The argument challenges the abro-
gation claim by establishing through indisputable evidence that the statement
in verse 2:284, "whether you show what is within yourselves or conceal it, God
will hold you accountable according to it", which is claimed to be abrogated, is
in fact valid for all times.

The reason the statement is clearly valid is that the cornerstone of religion,
upon which everything else is built, is not an action; it is whether one believes
in God and His Messenger (PBUH), a point that was raised by Ibn Ashur [153].
There is no dispute that we will be accountable, in the most decisive way,
for that sheer belief even though it is not an outward action, but something
within ourselves.

Once it is clear that we would be accountable for something that is within
ourselves, we know that verse 2:284 remains valid. How do we reconcile this
with the apparent conflict with verse 2:286 that came later? The reconciliation
is based on interpreting the passage "for it is what it has earned, and against it
is what it has brought upon itself" in verse 2:286 as not restricted to physical
deeds, a possible interpretation since the wording of the passage does not
preclude that.

Indeed, there is Quranic evidence that the wording of this passage is com-
patible with something within ourselves, not just outward action. The word
"earned" (£425) in the passage is used elsewhere in the Quran to describe
something within our heart: "... [God] holds you accountable for what your
hearts have earned ..." [Sfo : 3 aI] rf ig Hibs eS: (os Saisle a3
(Al-Ghali [43] and others).

Belief is just one clear example of something within ourselves for which

25 This ubiquitous narration appears as the very first narration in the renowned compilation
book of narrations by Al-Bukhari [35], and its authenticity is undisputed through multiple
reliable chains of narration.

4. FAMOUS CLAIMS 4.5. THOUGHT ACCOUNTABILITY (2:284)

we are accountable. Ibn Atiya [154] further characterizes the scope of what
is covered by this notion to be "what settled inside as a conviction that is
cogitated about" (45 35d! cyrneruly Aiely tll 3 5,4 4), as opposed to
passing thoughts that casually occur to us. He goes on to assert that the
follow-up in verse 2:286 is aimed at clarifying this point to those who took
verse 2:284 beyond its scope. Thus, verse 2:286 does not abrogate verse 2:284,
but clarifies its scope (Al-Thaalibi [111]). It is the deliberate thought, not the
casual thought, that is the subject matter of verse 2:284.

Another argument that is sometimes invoked to refute this abrogation
claim, e.g., by Al-Shaarawi [92], is that verse 2:284 is a statement of fact,
"whether you show what is within yourselves or conceal it, God will hold you ac-
countable according to it", thus cannot be subject to abrogation per the Facts
validation rule. A possible rebuttal to this argument is that, while the verse is
indeed phrased as a statement, it is not unreasonable to interpret it as a com-
mand against the thing that we would be held accountable for, in this case,
villainous thought.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

The main evidence for supporting this abrogation claim is a story that was
reported through many reliable sources (see, for example, the detailed account
from Ibn Kathir [163]) about events that took place after the revelation of verse
2:284. The events show the reaction of some of the fellows of the Prophet (PBUH)
that reflects an understanding that the verse asserts that we are accountable
for all our thoughts even if we do not act upon them. The story, told in different
versions of the narration, is considered highly authentic (see narration 31 in
Appendix A.3 for full text and analysis).

According to the story, the Fellows (RA) reacted to the passage "whether
you show what is within yourselves or conceal it, God will hold you accountable ac-
cording to it" in verse 2:284 by stating that they could not bear that (Ons Y).
The response of the Prophet (PBUH) focused entirely on their reaction being
a refusal to obey something that the Quran commands. The Fellows (RA) im-
mediately recanted and declared obedience to the command. In the exchange,
the Prophet (PBUH) did not elaborate or interpret what the verse meant; he
just addressed the issue of hearing something from the Quran and disobeying
it.

The narrator (not the Prophet himself) then goes on to say that after the
Fellows declared obedience to what they heard, God revealed "... and they said
we have heard and obeyed ..." [SAo : 3 ,4-5I] { ue abl; Eats iis a ® in the
following verse, then He abrogated (the narrator used the Arabic word naskh)
the passage of verse 2:284 by the opening of the final verse 2:286 "God does not
charge a soul except [with that within] its capacity. For it is what it has earned,
and against it is what it has brought upon itself."

4. FAMOUS CLAIMS 4.5. THOUGHT ACCOUNTABILITY (2:284)

Another narration, attributed to Ibn Abbas (ra), describes a similar re-
action to verse 2:284, this time by Ibn Umar (RA) who was distressed by the
command in the verse which seemed unattainable to him (Ibn Kathir [163]).
In the narration, Ibn Abbas (RA) also states that verse 2:286 abrogated this
command, again using the Arabic word naskh.

Given these narrations, what is indisputable is that some of the fellows of
the Prophet (PBUH) did perceive the command in verse in verse 2:284 as some-
thing unattainable, and that verse 2:286 relieved their anxiety by reassuring
them that God would not impose on them something unattainable. This fact,
in and of itself, would justify using the Arabic word naskh in its general sense
to describe the relationship between the two verses; the perception of what
verse 2:284 entailed was mitigated by verse 2:286.

The question for us here that is relevant to the validity of the abrogation
claim is whether the command in verse 2:284 was annulled, such that the
passage "whether you show what is within yourselves or conceal it, God will hold
you accountable according to it" would no longer apply. The reconciliation
arguments in the previous step show that this passage very much applies; it
just does not mean the unattainable task that the Fellows (RA) understood it
to mean.

This is a case in point of the general observation that Ibn Taymia [175]
made about abrogation claims. He asserted that "many of the predecessors
mean by the term 'abrogation' the lifting of what they think the verse signifies"
( ade Hla 2M of ody L chy Gell Leah yy LSI op 5). Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] has
a specific quote that what was abrogated in this case is the apprehension that
the Fellows (RA) felt in their heart.

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Al-Tabari [107] rejects this abrogation claim, siding with interpretations
that leave verse 2:284 in force.

Al-Razi [83] finds the abrogation claim to be weak based on his analysis of
the definition of abrogation and the wording of the verses.

Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] concludes a long analysis by rejecting the claim based
on the Facts validation rule even after he cited key early Muslims who support
the claim. Al-Nahhas [71] also invokes the Facts validation rule in strong terms
after weighing the evidence. Al-Shaarawi [92] rejects the abrogation claim on
the same grounds.

Ibn Atiya [154] rejects the claim, asserting that verse 2:286 explains which
thoughts we would be accountable for and which we would not be accountable
for. Al-Thaalibi [111] asserts the same argument that verse 2:286 elaborates
verse 2:284, not abrogate it. Waliyullah [203] describes it as specifying a gen-

erality (eld! eres).

4. FAMOUS CLAIMS 4.5. THOUGHT ACCOUNTABILITY (2:284)

Al-Arid [20] rejects this claim citing the opinions of a number of scholars.
F) Conclusion:

There is no conflict between the two passages in verses 2:284 and 2:286.
Together, they say to Muslims:

God will hold us accountable according to what we believe and
what we intend, even if that is hidden in our thoughts. He will
not hold us accountable for casual thoughts that just occur to
us since He does not impose on us something unattainable.

Uu~)

The abrogation claims we discussed in this chapter (and in §3.4) are among
the most cited in the abrogation literature, but perhaps the strongest abroga-
tion claims are the three claims accepted by nearly all pro-abrogation scholars
which M. Al-Ghazali [46] singled out as the only meritorious claims. We refer
to them as 'the big three', claiming abrogation of verse 58:12 about private
consultation, verse 8:65 about steadfastness in battle, and verses 73:1-4 about
night prayer. We dedicate the next chapter to discussing them in detail.

Chapter 5

The Big Three

There are three distinct abrogation claims that most of the pro-abrogation
scholars accept as valid claims. What they have in common is that the affected
verses contain language within them which can be construed as suggesting
that abrogation took place. We dedicate this chapter to discussing these three
claims in detail given their common features and their importance to the
Abrogation Doctrine.

5.1 Private Consultation (58:12)

The first abrogation claim we discuss among the 'big 3' is about verses 58:12-
13. The verses address the protocol for Muslims who sought private consul-
tation with the Prophet (PBUH). There are other angles in these verses beyond
the abrogation question. We will address those angles in a number of side
notes while focussing here on the abrogation question itself.

A) The claim:

The verse claimed abrogated is,
B15 Ll 6655 G5 1255 J SI LT GIG
[Me Aisle dIl € Cans 58h ah GS 13d SOG 5ebly 2a) HS WS
[58:12] O you who have believed, when you consult privately with
the Messenger, then offer ahead of your consultation a charity. That

is better for you and more purifying. But if you cannot afford it, God
is forgiving and merciful.

5. THE Bic THREE 5.1. PRIVATE CONSULTATION (58:12)

and the verse claimed to have abrogated it is the next verse,

ee 5 SH oo ceige is sta of eat)
Jee 4 ae SES 1,315 SLI 2 ibe
[Wy : Dold ¢ ees

[58:13] Were you apprehensive about offering, ahead of your con-
sultations, charities? Now that you have not done it - and God has
pardoned you - then establish prayer, give alms and obey God and His
messenger. God is well aware of what you do.

With only few exceptions, pro-abrogation scholars who studied these two
verses for possible abrogation have concluded that verse 58:12 was abrogated.
The majority of them said that it was abrogated by verse 58:13 but a mi-
nority opined that the abrogating is the regular zakah (required almsgiving)
mandate, an opinion which Al-Thaalibi [111] described as weak.

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

Scholars who saw a conflict between the two verses viewed verse 58:12 to
be instructing Muslims to give charity before one may consult privately with
the Prophet (PBUH) if one can afford it, and they viewed verse 58:13 to be
rescinding that instruction.

Although this abrogation claim is the most agreed upon, the above conflict
is not self-evident based on the wording of the verses as we will see in Step
C. The claim seems to hinge (Al-Qasimi [77]) on narrations quoting Ali (RA)
saying that he was the only one who complied with verse 58:12 until verse
58:13 abrogated it.

In spite of these narrations being widely cited, none of the top hadith
scholars! included any of them as an authentic narration. Every chain of
narrators of that quote has been impeached (see Step D). Not only is the
narration uncertain in sourcing, but it also is outrightly inauthentic.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

One argument for reconciling the two verses is based on the interpretation
of Al-Maqdesi [68]. It asserts that verse 58:13 only provides a way of expiation
for those who failed the test of verse 58:12. Expiation does not remove the
command that was disobeyed; it only gives a second chance to those who
disobeyed it. An example is the expiation for someone who did not fast in

1 Authors of the "six books" of narrations from the Prophet (PBUH) and his Fellows (RA):
Al-Bukhari [35], Muslim [189], Abu-Dawoud [3], Al-Tirmizi [113], Al-Nasai [73] and Ibn
Majah [166].

5. THE Bic THREE 5.1. PRIVATE CONSULTATION (58:12)

Ramadan without an excuse. Having that expiation does not remove the
requirement of the Ramadan fast.

There are two aspects of the wording of verse 58:13 that support the expi-
ation view:

1. The verse uses the word 34 which means "now that" when it says "Now
that you have not done [what you were supposed to do]". This means that
an infraction has already taken place (AIRA [131]), and the verse is only
addressing what to do after such an infraction. As Abu-Albaqaa [2] phrases
it, "you left out [the charity] in the past (_,2+ l«3), so redress it by establishing
the prayer". If the verse had said "If you do not do" instead of "Now that
you have not done"," it might be viewed as creating an alternative to what is
supposed to be done. Here, if the wording of the verse is faithfully followed,
what is supposed to be done is still supposed to be done; having an expiation
for an infraction does not change that.

2. After pointing out the infraction that took place, the verse says «fy os
cae which is normally translated to "and God has pardoned you." However,

the word used for 'pardon' (4,3) is also used for 'expiation' in the Quran, e.g.,
at the end of verse 4:92 which prescribes the expiation for accidental killing.

The verses describe the infraction and its expiation in specific terms, but
these specifics do not affect the reconciliation argument. The argument is
simply that verse 58:13 addresses those who made an infraction regarding
verse 58:12, and offers them an expiation for such infraction. Therefore, it
does not negate anything mentioned in verse 58:12. It just complements it.

A second argument that reconciles the two verses postulates that verse
58:13 provides a license or easing of a hardship that exempts a specific group
from the charity requirement of verse 58:12. This interpretation is mentioned
in a number of exegesis books, although they consider two different groups in
their analyses.

The first group that the exegetes, e.g., Al-Thaalibi [111], Al-Shawkani [96],
and AIRA [131] identify as covered by the license is comprised of those who
are able to give the charity (hence they are not exempted by verse 58:12), but
would be burdened by it. This view is supported by the word Perea (Were
you apprehensive?) in verse 58:13 which shows reluctance but not inability.®

The second group that the exegetes identify (Al-Thaalabi [110] and Al-

Baghawi [23]) is comprised of the companions of the Prophet (PBuH). It stands
to logic that those close to the Prophet (PBUH) often talk to him privately, so

Interestingly, it takes one letter to modify 3, the word used in verse 58:13, into |3
which would make it "If you do not do".

3 Another meaning of the verb al (was apprehensive) when used as a transitive verb is

"did less of" as in gave less charity or gave charity less often (iis - ¢lball git).

5. THE Bic THREE 5.1. PRIVATE CONSULTATION (58:12)

offering a charity every time they do that would be a hardship. Two words
in the verses support this view; charity is mentioned in the plural (e612 -
charities) when verse 58:13 talks about the license while it is mentioned in
the singular (Biz - a charity) when verse 58:12 talks about the requirement
(AIRA [131]). Thus, one may argue that the license in verse 58:13 is meant for
those who seek out the Prophet (PBUH) frequently (Al-Khatib [61] and Nada
[190]) hence would need to give many charities for that.

It should be noted that most of the books we cited in this second inter-
pretation still referred to the relationship between the two verses as naskh
despite the reconciliatory nature of their interpretation. As we introduced in
Chapter 1 and explained in Chapter 2, this may be a manifestation of the
semantic ambiguity of the Arabic word naskh (a+) that allows it to be used
for meanings other than abrogation. These other uses routinely occur in the
literature as we have seen.

A third argument that reconciles the two verses is that verse 58:13 is
qualified by its contingency: apprehension. A contingent command is tied
to its contingency. It applies only when the contingency exists and ceases
to apply when the contingency is no longer. This reconciliation was offered
by Mostafa [186]. He concludes that once the apprehension is cleared, the
command in verse 58:12 returns.

This third interpretation is similar in spirit to the second interpretation,
but there is a difference. The second interpretation exempts a group of peo-
ple, e.g., the companions of the Prophet (PBUH), while the exemption in the
third interpretation is based on a condition, namely, the hardship that would
result from following the command, a hardship that may come and go. Both
interpretations leave the charity requirement of verse 58:12 intact for all but
those specifically exempted, which means that verse 58:12 is not abrogated.

In conclusion, we reiterate that it takes only one viable interpretation that
reconciles the two verses to refute the abrogation claim according to the burden
of proof set forth by the pro-abrogation scholars themselves. It is not necessary
to argue that such an interpretation is more plausible than the interpretation
that substantiates the conflict between the two verses.

The above interpretations have faithfully followed the wording of verses
58:12-13 and based their reconciliation on a straightforward reading of that
wording, and it is an established rule of exegesis (Al-Zarkashi [125]) to inter-
pret Arabic words the way Arabs normally use them ("taking the absolute of

the language" - iaJ\| gle isi),
D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:
As mentioned earlier, this abrogation claim is largely based on narrations

attributed to Ali (RA). In one version, he is reported to have said "In God's

5. THE Bic THREE 5.1. PRIVATE CONSULTATION (58:12)

book, there is a verse that no one before me put into action, and no one after
me will put into action [quoting verse 58:12]. I had a dinar' and I sold it so
when I consulted with the Messenger privately I gave a dirham* for charity
until I ran out. Then [verse 58:12] was abrogated by the other verse [quoting
verse 58:13]."

The wording of this version of the narrations is quite pointed. The state-
ment "no one after me will put into action" indicates actual abrogation, thus
removing the ambiguity associated with the word naskh which was often used
for things other than abrogation during that era. Coming from a revered per-
sonality like Ali (RA), this clearly would be decisive evidence for the abrogation
claim, and it may explain why the claim has been so widely accepted. The
problem is that these narrations attributed to Ali (RA) are not authentic. We
are going to establish this important fact in detail here.

Since these inauthentic narrations are the cornerstone in claiming that
verse 58:12 is abrogated, it is worthwhile to explain the criteria for authen-
tication of narrations. A narration is considered by hadith scholars to be
authentic only if its chain of narrators is connected and every narrator in the
chain is identified and reliable.

Different hadith scholars have different criteria for determining connectiv-
ity and reliability, some more strict than others, but the consensus of hadith
scholars has been that six books of narration compilation are the most au-
thoritative in this matter: Al-Bukhari [35], Muslim [189], Abu-Dawoud [3],
Al-Tirmizi [113], Al-Nasai [73] and Ibn Majah [166]. Next to those, two more
books have been highly regarded by most hadith scholars: Ibn Hibban [161]
and Ibn Khuzayma [165].

None of these eight books contains the above quote by Ali (RA), or any
of its variations, as an authentic narration. These books contain more than
a hundred narrations by Ali (RA) about other subjects and classify them as
authentic, but the above narration about this abrogation claim is not one of
them.

point to ponder

In the extensive pro-abrogation literature we surveyed, 40 out of
50 scholars who claimed abrogation for verse 58:12 prominently
featured the inauthentic narrations attributed to Ali (RA), with
many presenting no further evidence. Among the rest, 6 mentioned
the story among other evidence and 4 offered no evidence at all.

What disqualified this narration from being considered authentic? A chain
is only as strong as its weakest link. Therefore, if one of the narrators in a chain

4A dinar is a gold coin and a dirham is a silver coin worth a small fraction of a dinar.
Selling a dinar means breaking it into dirhams.

5. THE Bic THREE 5.1. PRIVATE CONSULTATION (58:12)

of narrators is rated "weak", as Al-Nasai determined when he analyzed the
narrator chain of this narration, the narration is not classified as authentic.

Similarly, if the narrator chain is disconnected, as the prominent hadith
scholar Ibn Hajar [156] found when he analyzed the narration in question, it
leads the scholar to conclude that the narration is less than authentic. Ibn Al-
Arabi [145] looked at variations of the narration that were also attributed to
Ali (RA) and concluded that they are inauthentic, using unequivocal language
("and all of this is invalid" - wa Y als ling).

The narration encyclopedia published by Al-Dorar Al-Saniyya [89] has
compiled an online database of tens of thousands of narrations and their rat-
ings as reported in a multitude of narration books. The encyclopedia includes
two instances of the narration in question and summarizes the ratings of one
of them as "weak" (Cin) and the other as "disconnected" (qbeds)."

It should be noted that if a narration that was not rated authentic by
the original narration books was later judged to be authentic by a prominent
scholar, e.g., Al-Albani, through reexamining the chain and finding it to be
reliable, the encyclopedia would feature the belated authentication in its rat-
ing summary, so the "disconnected" and "weak" ratings that it gave to the
narration in question are the cumulative verdict.

The case of this narration is not a rarity. In the early centuries of Islam,
before authentication of narrations became a discipline with the advent of
Al-Bukhari, many narrations were floated in the literature that later proved
to be inauthentic, even fabricated. Given how compelling the wording of
this narration is about the abrogation of verse 58:12, and given that it was
attributed to Ali (RA) who not only was a first cousin of the Prophet (PBUH), but
also a foremost scholar of Islam who later became the Caliph of the nation, it
is not surprising that this abrogation claim gained such momentum.

Other narrations by key personalities that 'corroborate' the story about Ali
(RA) are also inauthentic. Among them is a narration attributed to Ibn Umar
(RA) where he mentions blessings that Ali (RA) had that he would have loved
to have and one of them is the event of 58:12-13. None of the major narration
compilations includes this narration. What they include is a variation of it that
is unrelated to 58:12-13, and even that is not authentic. Another inauthentic
narration is attributed to Ibn Abbas (RA) that relates the story about Ali (RA).
Similar inauthentic accounts of the story are attributed to Mujahid.

Other narrations that are not related to the story about Ali (RA) are on par
with similar inconclusive evidence that is invoked in many other abrogation
claims:

e¢ Two narrations attributed to Ibn Abbas (Ra) assert the naskh of verse

5See Side note 17 for the full Arabic text.

5. THE Bic THREE 5.1. PRIVATE CONSULTATION (58:12)

58:12 by the zakah mandate (rather than by verse 58:13) or describe
58:13 as easing, rather than tightening, on Muslims. Not only is the
language subject to interpretation, but the two narrations in question
are inauthentic. Ibn Al-Arabi [144] dismissed the assertions in these
narrations as well as their authenticity.

¢ Other narrations attributed to some of the followers (s=\d!), the genera-
tion after the fellows of the Prophet (PBUH), report their interpretation of
verses 58:12-13. Authenticity aside, some of the opinions in these narra-
tions are themselves subject to interpretation, e.g., those using the word
naskh which, in that era, commonly meant things other than abrogation
as we detailed in §2.3.2.

e A narration attributed to Ibn Hayyan says that the charity requirement
proved to be a hardship for Muslims, so after a short time God revealed
the license. However, the license to which he is referring is not that of
verse 58:13, but the license exempting the poor from the charity require-
ment at the end of verse 58:12 itself (Ibn Kathir [163]). Not only is this
narration inauthentic, but also it is about an exception to the charity
requirement not an abrogation of that requirement.

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Pro-abrogation scholar Al-Isnawi [52] discusses this claim and says "this
is not abrogation" (qe ud lde). As Zuhair [207] discusses both sides of the
debate, he quotes and elaborates Al-Isnawi's view.

Pro-abrogation scholar Al-Maqdesi [68] reconciled verses 58:12 with 58:13.
He saw 58:13 as instituting an expiation for those who failed to follow the
command in 58:12. The first reconciliation argument in Step C is based on
his interpretation. While Al-Maqdesi did not mention abrogation by name,
his interpretation does reconcile the two verses. As we discussed in §2.2,
a reconciliation argument is a refutation of the abrogation claim.

In his commentary on verse 58:12, pro-abrogation scholar Al-Razi [83]
noted that the prevalent view is that of abrogation by verse 58:13, and in-
cluded views that approve the abrogation claim and other views that disap-
prove it. When he cited an interpretation that refutes the claim, he went on
to say "so this would not be abrogation, and what was said is good and not
objectionable" (ly by Le op eis \ny piss ee og WW).

Pro-abrogation scholar Ibn Al-Arabi seems to offer opinions both against
and for the abrogation claim of verse 58:12. He included the verse among
verses "in which abrogation does not materialize" (\.3 Gell Gooey Y) in his
book about abrogated verses, but also referred to the verse later as being

5. THE Bic THREE 5.1. PRIVATE CONSULTATION (58:12)

abrogated (Ibn Al-Arabi {144]).° He also dismissed the inauthentic narrations
on which this abrogation claim is based in no uncertain terms: "so there is no
benefit in engaging in them or in their likes" (lel Vy lg Slee) (3 388 de).

Hasaballah [139], who is also pro-abrogation, did not approve the abroga-
tion claim of 58:12, relating it to a reconciliation argument that he used in
another abrogation claim. The disapproval was cited by Al-Nimr [74], another
pro-abrogation scholar, when he addressed this claim.

There is a group of scholars who made statements that reconcile the two
verses, but still used the word naskh to describe the situation. This is not
unusual since the other meanings of the Arabic word naskh, e.g., elaboration
(see the discussion of the Elaboration validation rule) are often used in the
literature. Those other meanings could be what these scholars had in mind
when they mentioned naskh since their statements show that there is no real
conflict between the two verses that would call for a claim of abrogation.

Among them are Al-Thaalibi [111], Al-'Shawkani [96], Al-Thaalabi [110],
and Al-Baghawi [23] who made statements along the lines of the second rec-
onciliation argument based on license in Step C. Al-Qasimi [77] opposed this
abrogation claim based on a similar reconciliation argument, and also pointed
out the conflation of alternative meanings of the word naskh.

Some modern scholars discussed verses 58:12 and 58:13 without mention-
ing abrogation directly or indirectly. An example from this group is SCIA
[201] who are a committee of scholars. They interpreted the two verses with-
out mentioning abrogation by name or by synonym. Other modern scholars
explicitly opposed the abrogation claim, e.g., Al-Saqqa [88] who opposed the
claim and interpreted the acts of worship mentioned in verse 58:13 as a form
of charity that satisfies the requirement of verse 58:12.

F) Conclusion:

All the reconciliatory arguments outlined in Step C above are sound and
any of them is sufficient to refute this claim. We favor the first argument
(expiation) because it is consistent with the particular wording of verse 58:13.
That argument can be articulated in the following reconcilability statement
that combines the two verses without any conflict,"

8In another one of his books, Ibn Al-Arabi [145] approves this abrogation claim. Because
of cross-referencing, it is not clear which of the two books came first (Ibn Al-Arabi {144]),
but we relied on the book that he dedicated to the subject of abrogation.

"The exegesis of SCIA [201] makes a similar statement.

5. THE Bic THREE 5.1. PRIVATE CONSULTATION (58:12)

Before believers may seek private counsel with the Prophet
(PBUH), it is proper and more purifying of their souls to offer
a token charity if they can afford it. They should not feel
apprehensive or reluctant about doing that. Those who felt
apprehensive were assured that God pardoned them as long as
they kept up their prayers, almsgiving, and obedience to God
and His Messenger.

5.1.1 Impact of Inauthentic Evidence

The abrogation claim of 58:12-13 is one of the starkest examples of the impact
inauthentic evidence can have. The vulnerability to inauthentic evidence is an
important issue in general, and critically important for the discussion of the
Abrogation Doctrine in particular. We will address this issue in detail here.

As we will tally shortly, the inauthentic narrations that were attributed to
Ali (RA) have been the main piece of evidence cited by those who concluded
that verse 58:12 was abrogated by verse 58:13 throughout the entire Islamic
history. It is logical that scholars who thought that these narrations were
authentic would conclude that verse 58:12 was abrogated. If it were true that
Ali (RA), a foremost scholar, the son-in-law and close fellow of the Prophet
(PBUH), and the future Caliph of the nation, explicitly said that 58:12 was
abrogated, the rest of the evidence would pale in comparison.

However, without exception, all the major scholars of narration compila-
tions did not find any variation of these narrations to be authentic. Let us
look at the specifics. There are various variations of these narrations (e.g., in
Al-Tabari [107]), but they basically belong to three versions:

1. A version quoting Ali (RA) asserting that he is the only one who abode
by 58:12 then it was abrogated. This is the strongest version in terms of
being direct evidence of abrogation from Ali (RA) himself, and it is the
version that was shown to be inauthentic ('weak' - La, and 'discon-
nected' - cade) in the above discussion of the claim's evidence.

2. A version quoting Ali (RA) discussing with the Prophet (PBUH) the ap-
propriate amount of charity® per 58:12. This version is suggestive of
abrogation if not explicit about it, and it was referred to briefly in the
same discussion. It was dismissed in strong terms, e.g., the quote by Ibn
Al-Arabi [145]: "and all of this is invalid" - ce Vals lias.

3. A version where a third party is relating some variation of the above
stories about Ali (RA). The third party is sometimes Mujahid, sometimes

8Some scholars point out that the tone of the purported discussion is unbecoming, adding
to the doubts about its authenticity.

5. THE Bic THREE 5.1. PRIVATE CONSULTATION (58:12)

Ibn Abbas (RA), and sometimes others. None of these variations is any-
where to be found in the major narrations books.

There are other narrations reporting analyses and opinions about the ab-
rogation claim of 58:12 without mentioning Ali (RA) or any of the above stories,
so they do not affect the present discussion. The main point here is that all
versions of these stories about Ali (RA) are inauthentic. Nonetheless, the fol-
lowing tally shows how much these stories were cited as evidence, sometimes
as the only evidence, when scholars concluded that 58:13 abrogated 58:12.

e Surveying the books of exegesis of the Quran that interpret verse 58:12,
we looked at 30) books that are pro-abrogation. Among them, |25
prominently featured the story about Ali (RA) in their interpretation that
58:12 was abrogated (including Al-Tabari [107], Al-Samarqandi [86], Al-
Thaalabi [110], Al-Baghawi [23], Al-Zamakhshari [124], Al-Baydawi [31],
Al-Nasafi [72], Al-Khazen [62], Al-Ghornati [47], Ibn Kathir [163], Al-
Thaalibi [111], and Ibn Adel [143]). The remaining five books mentioned
it less prominently, including Al-Qurtubi [80] and Al-Shawkani [96].

e Surveying the books that are dedicated to abrogation or have a detailed
section about it, we looked at 20) books that approved the abrogation
about Ali (RA) in their analysis of the abrogation claim (including Ibn Sal-
lam [171], Al-Nahhas [71], Al-Jassas [57], Ibn Salama [170], Al-Baghdadi
[24], Makki [184], Al-Khazraji [63], Ibn Al-Jawzi [147], Al-Karmi [60],
and Al-Ajhuri {9]). One book mentioned it less prominently, and the
remaining four books did not mention it or mention any other evidence,
e.g., Al-Andalusi [19].

Three main factors have made it possible for an inauthentic narration like
this to propagate so deeply throughout Islamic literature:

1. Pre-authentication Era: Before authentication of narrations became
a discipline with the advent of Al-Bukhari in the third hijri century, scholars
routinely quoted narrations without the means to verify their authenticity.
Many of the narrations were cited without a chain of attribution that traces
down to the person being quoted, which would be needed for authentication.
That era was not brief nor inconsequential; it lasted for almost two centuries
and included some of the foremost scholars in Islam, including all the founders
of the major Islamic schools of thought, e.g., Abu-Hanifa and Al-Shafei.

An anecdote that shows how authentication was not a mature discipline during
that era is a quote by Al-Shafei about the book Al-Muattaa ('The well-trodden
path') which was the first major compilation of Prophetic narrations, written
by the revered Imam Malik. Al-Shafei, who followed Malik but predated Al-
Bukhari and the authentication era, described Al-Muattaa saying "no book

5. THE Bic THREE 5.2. STEADFASTNESS IN BATTLE (8:65)

after the Book of God [the Quran] is more correct than the book by Malik
[Al-Muattaa]". While the book does command great respect by scholars from
all eras, many narrations in it have been subsequently found to be inauthentic.

This reflects on the limited tools that were available in that era, not on those
great scholars who did their best with the tools that they had. The inescapable
conclusion, however, is that inauthentic narrations have indeed been cited and
taken into consideration by scholars during that era before the discipline of
authentication eliminated them.

2. The role of Conveyance: Even after a narration is found to be inauthen-
tic, it may still persist in the literature. The main method of jurisprudence in
Islam is 'conveyance' (alnaql - \4J\), namely copying from past information.
Conveyance from the Quran and from the Prophet (PBUH) is of course the fun-
damental source of jurisprudence in Islam. Conveyance from other key figures
is also taken very seriously. Many also defer to previous scholars as part of
conveyance.

While conveyance protects divine revelations from being corrupted by alter-
ations or injected novelties, it inadvertently enables occasional false informa-
tion to propagate through generations. An example of this is an outrageous
story that was fabricated about verse 22:52. This story is now completely
debunked, but it is still cited by some authors as it was ubiquitous in the
literature over many centuries. We will discuss this incident in Chapter 12.

3. Compromised References: Some books that have been published and
made it to the mainstream Islamic bibliography have an abundance of false
narrations listed as if they were authentic. Two such books are the narra-
tion compilation by Al-Hakem and the alleged compilation of the exegesis of
Ibn Abbas (ra) written by Al-Fairuzabadi.? As these and other compromised
references make it through the literature, authors may inadvertently cite a false
narration from them thinking that it is authentic.

The end result is that there are many inauthentic narrations that are routinely
cited to support different abrogation claims. Because of this, we created Ap-
pendix A.3 as a complete reference that lists all authentic narrations included
in the major narration books that pertain to any abrogation claim. Needless
to say, the narrations about verses 58:12-13 that were wrongly attributed to
Ali (Ra) did not make it to that Appendix.

5.2 Steadfastness in Battle (8:65)

This claim, together with the previous claim (§5.1), are the only two abroga-
tion claims that both Waliyullah and Zeid approved in their short lists. The

° An Internet copy of the book even has a posted warning on the cover page.

5. THE Bic THREE 5.2. STEADFASTNESS IN BATTLE (8:65)

claim addresses how much bigger the enemy army can be without deterring
the Muslim army from fighting. While this claim is not as widely approved
by scholars as the previous claim, it is sometimes used as an example to prove
the validity of the Abrogation Doctrine.

A) The claim:

The following verse,

v4
ge

Syke peaks 5A O Jeall I Gehl Bis GE le el & 3
WA Galo ESB pate SERS i LA Oat

[re : JIN € 6488s Y 658 wf
[8:65] O Prophet! Urge the believers onto chin If there may
be twenty steadfast ones of you, they would beat two hundred, and if
there may be a hundred of you, they would beat a thousand of those
who have disbelieved, for they are folk who do not comprehend.

is claimed to be abrogated by the next verse,

be 55 5 3 lin peas icles n2ate i Gl Gis SMI}
a Pe ee aoe ule Lh Ble
a arate

[8:66] Now God has eased upon you and He knew that there is
weakness in you, so if there may be a hundred steadfast ones of you,
they would beat two hundred, and if there may be a thousand of you,
they would beat two thousand by the permission of God. God is with
the steadfast.

=

The claim is supported by many scholars including Al-Tabari [107], Ibn Salama
(170], Al-Andalusi [19], Ibn Al-Arabi [144], Ibn Al-Jawzi [147], Ibn Kathir
[163], Al-Suyuti [100], Waliyullah [203], and Zeid [206].

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

Verse 8:65 is understood to direct Muslims to fight even if they face an
army tenfold their size, while verse 8:66 is understood to limit that directive
to armies that are only twofold in size, thus removing the stricter demand of
the first verse.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

A fundamental issue in reconciling verses 8:65-66 is whether their assertions

5. THE Bic THREE 5.2. STEADFASTNESS IN BATTLE (8:65)

of tenfold and twofold, e.g., "if there may be twenty steadfast ones of you, they
would beat two hundred", constitute commands (to fight an army that size) or
just statements of fact (reassurance about prevailing over an army that size).
Linguistically, these references are phrased as conditional statements of fact;
if a condition holds then a result follows. However, a majority of scholars have
concluded that these statements are metaphors, meant as commands.

The first reconciliation argument takes the majority view that these are
commands. It reconciles the two commands as being contingent on different
conditions. A number of pro-abrogation scholars who reject this abrogation
claim have adopted the contingency argument, including Al-Razi [83], Al-
Zahiri [121], and Al-Shaarawi [92].

The contingency is spelled out in the opening of verse 8:66,
v1: JW GR Aan GI hey Ante dbl GS GI}

[8:66] Now God has eased upon you and He knew that there is
weakness in you, so if ...

which cites a condition of weakness before stating the new command. The
use of 'so' (3) shows that the command that follows is a consequence of this
opening part.

Strength and weakness are conditions that change with time; "the strong
may become weak", as Al-Shaarawi [92] phrases it. In verse 8:66, weakness is
a new condition that emerged. M. Al-Ghazali [46] elaborates this point based
on the wording of the verse: "Now ... [God] knew ...". He points out that
"what is referred to by knowing here is an emerging [condition], meaning that
a weakness that had not been in them [has now] emerged; because if it had
been there before, God would have known it existed" (_ox jgl)| Ls ld ally

Vogrye dale 5 alll SI Lele oS 4) oY (SG gl Gee ped gb si ai).

The emergence of weakness 'now' does not mean that weakness is here to
stay from now on. The word 'now' also describes conditions that hold just for
now. Thus a condition of strength as well as another condition of weakness may
hold in the future, leading to the tenfold command and the twofold command
being operative at different times. If a command can become operative, it is
not abrogated by definition.

Al-Asfahani provided an elaborate discussion of the contingency argument
(Al-Razi [83]). He conceded that verses 8:65-66 constitute commands, not
statements of fact, and then noted that these commands are conditioned. In
verse 8:65, the command is conditioned on the twenty's ability to be steadfast
(or patient, as the word xe typically signifies) in the face of two hundred.

5. THE Bic THREE 5.2. STEADFASTNESS IN BATTLE (8:65)

[re: JW € ... Gye Gypbe au 53 OB

[8:65] ... If there may be twenty steadfast ones of you, ...

Al-Asfahani then notes that when the following verse 8:66 states "Now God has
eased upon you and He knew that there is weakness in you", this means that the
previous condition is not valid for this group. The more stringent command is
conditioned on a strong level of patience. The above quote by Al-Shaarawi [92]
continues with a similar point, "the strong may become weak, and similarly
some people may be burdened by patience" (is ob Wiss aes pr AB Syl
soll Gah 1B ppd oy).

We should note that patience is also mentioned in verse 8:66, even in
the context of weakness. The fact that there are different levels of patience,
some weaker than others, is an established notion in Islam. Ibn Al-Qayyim
[151] presents an elaborate account of the levels of patience, supported by
authoritative narrations. Muslims can strive for the higher levels of patience,
but they are still considered patient if they are at the lower levels.

A second argument is also based on the different levels of patience, but
it takes the view that the twofold and tenfold ratios in verses 8:65-66 are
statements of fact to reassure the Muslims rather than commands for them to
fight (Qutb [191], among others).

There is evidence to support this view. First, verses 8:65-66 use the word
4% ('beat' or 'prevail') rather than 'fight', which supports the view that they
are statements of fact. People can be commanded to fight, but they cannot be
commanded to prevail since this is not entirely under their control. Second,
the preceding verse,

ire: MEN Seal 5 Glacl 05 Si Gens Ze Ty >

[8:64] O Prophet; sufficient for you is God and whoever followed
you of the believers.

makes the context that of reassurance.

However, there is also evidence on the other side. The opening part of
verse 8:66 states "Now God has eased upon you" (Ke Ugo res 3N)). This
supports the view that these are commands since commands are amenable to
easing, while statements of fact are not. This point needs to be countered if
the statement-of-fact view is to hold. What is it about such a statement that
could be 'eased'?

e To answer this question, we note that the statement "if there may be twenty
steadfast ones of you, they would beat two hundred" is a conditional construct.
It only states that if the Muslims are patient, they will prevail over a tenfold
numerical advantage of the enemy. This is a characterization of being patient;

5. THE Bic THREE 5.2. STEADFASTNESS IN BATTLE (8:65)

those who are patient will prevail. By the same token, if you do not prevail
against such an enemy, the inevitable conclusion is that you are not patient
because if you were, you would.

The particular conditional article used here (3!) has a neutral connotation;
it does not tilt toward the condition being true or being false. Muslims can be
patient, and they can be not patient. Indeed, the verses are referring to those
who are patient among the Muslims (7). Ibn Ashur [153] takes this point
further, concluding that only "the patient believers who will not be shaken"
are to be urged to fight.

The subject of patience continues in the next verse 8:66, "if there may be
a hundred steadfast ones of you, they would beat two hundred", which Al-Zahiri
[121] describes as "only informing about prevailing, under the condition of
patience." The ending of the verse reinforces that; "and God is with the patient"

(Gupbell na Aisis). That is why they will prevail.

e So, what was eased in verse 8:66 compared to verse 8:65 if there is no com-
mand for Muslims? What was eased is the burden that needs to be overcome
to qualify a Muslim as patient in the eyes of God. The easing is not the reduc-
tion of the enemy advantage per se, but the broadening of the scope of who
will be counted as patient by the Almighty.

There is evidence to support this view. A narration attributed to Ibn Ab-
bas (RA) and authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35] contains a statement that is
consistent with the view that what was eased was the level of patience. In the
narration, Ibn Abbas (Ra) describes the easing in verse 8:66 by saying "so when
God eased the count [tenfold down to twofold] on them, He reduced from the

patience as much as was eased on them" (J jai Stall on mer AW) aks EG
pee Chis be Lie fl).

This type of easing is somewhat similar to the situation depicted in the
Prophetic narration: "the strong believer is better and more beloved by God
than the weak believer, and there is good in each." (3 esl = fsyill ing

aw)

IS hy aaa cb! Gs alll).2° There are degrees of strength among the
believers, and while the stronger believers are better, all believers are good.
The last part of the narration is the easing that extends being good in the eyes
of God to weaker believers, as verse 8:66 extends being patient in the eyes of
God to weaker believers who do not meet the stringent prescription of verse
8:65.

e Easing by broadening the scope for Muslims occurs elsewhere in the Quran
(Al-Razi [83]). In this case, verse 4:25 broadens the scope of who a Muslim
can marry, with an elaboration that follows:

10 Authenticated by Muslim [189].

5. THE Bic THREE 5.2. STEADFASTNESS IN BATTLE (8:65)

[A scLol { Ueb Std gids eae le Sf iN >

[4:28] God wants to ease upon you; and mankind was created
weak.

whose wording has a striking similarity to the opening of verse 8:66 "Now God
has eased upon you and He knew that there is weakness in you".

The reduction from tenfold to twofold is not the only manifestation of
easing in verse 8:66 compared to verse 8:65. The other manifestation is the
different bases for prevailing over the bigger army in the two verses. In verse
8:65, the basis is a deficit in the enemy ("for they are a folk who do not compre-

hend" - Sg y a3 til) while in verse 8:66, the basis is a directive from God
(per "permission of God" - ali os). For the believers, it is certainly a bigger
assurance when it is a directive from God than when it is a worldly rationale.

Being statements of fact is sufficient to refute the abrogation claim (the
Facts validation rule), but some may still perceive a conflict that verses 8:65-66
provide two different characterizations of being patient. There is no conflict;
God is teaching us that there are different levels of patience and that He is
with the patient during their strength and their weakness.

A third argument, put forward by Al-Nahhas [71] in the fourth héjri
century, reconciles the directives of verses 8:65-66 by asserting that the first
directive is optional while the second is mandatory. He argues that the ruling
in verse 8:65 was not abrogated because the ruling in verse 8:66 "did not lift
the first ruling since [God] did not say in it that a man should not fight ten;
rather, if he was able to, then the choice would be his." He treats it as a pure
license that is not contingent; it is simply up to each individual Muslim to
decide. This would be similar to the license for a fasting traveler to break the
fast; it is his call to take advantage of the license or to fast.

Indeed, the tenfold directive in verse 8:65 has the form of a recommendation
for the believers per the wording of the verse which addresses the Prophet
(PBUH) saying "urge the believers onto fighting" (Jedi ec ea a =). The
word 'urge' (_25)'! is certainly not conducive to a binding command. By
contrast, the twofold directive in verse 8:66 has the style of a command per
the wording of the verse that addresses the believers directly, so there is a basis
for taking it as mandatory.

The three reconciliation arguments presented here have merit based on the
wording of the two verses and have support from many scholars, including pro-
abrogation scholars. Any one of these arguments would be sufficient to refute
the abrogation claim; there is no irreconcilable conflict. Without irreconcilable

11Derived from (2, thus meaning 'avoid calamity by doing what is urged' (Al-Shaarawi
[92] and others). Also meaning 'be persistent and steady in what is urged' (Al-Qurtubi [80]).

5. THE Bic THREE 5.2. STEADFASTNESS IN BATTLE (8:65)

conflict, there is no case for abrogation as established in §2.2.
D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

The additional evidence for and against this abrogation claim falls into
two categories. The first category is evidence coming from historical facts
about Islamic battles. This category is unique to this abrogation claim; if the
claim holds, there are practical consequences for the Muslims when they fight
a battle, and history can reveal to us whether these consequences were actually
observed. The second category consists of different narrations attributed to
Ibn Abbas (RA) and others that are related to verses 8:65-66.

Before we present the historical evidence, let us pin down exactly what
the abrogation claim would imply for the military decisions of Muslim leaders,
so that we can compare it to what actually happened in the battles. The
abrogation claim would render verse 8:65 inoperative, so Muslims are only
required to fight as long as the enemy is at most twice their size. This is the
lower requirement that verse 8:66 substituted for the higher requirement of
verse 8:65.

As a result, Muslim leaders would not be able to order their soldiers to
fight when the enemy is more than twice the Muslim army. The historical
evidence shows that they have in fact ordered their soldiers to do exactly that,
thus contradicting the abrogation claim.

e The evidence comes from early Islamic history, where Muslim armies fought
multiple battles against armies that were more than twice their size. These
battles took place after verse 8:66 was revealed.!? One of the battles occurred
during the life of the Prophet (PBUH). The other two battles occurred during
the rule of the first two Caliphs, Abu-Bakr (RA) and Umar (RA), immediately
after the death of the Prophet (PBUH).

The most famous and well-documented of these battles is the battle of
Yarmuk (e,5\ 45,2) fought under the rule of Umar (RA) in the 15th hijri
year. In that battle, Khalid Ibn Al-Walid (ra) led the Muslim army against
a Roman army?!® that was numerically superior, and still achieved a decisive
victory. Almost all accounts from both Arab and Western sources put the
numerical advantage of the Romans at more than twofold.

For example, in his early book about Islamic conquests in the Levant, Al-
Wagqidi [117] wrote an elaborate narrative of the battle of Yarmuk. He reports
detailed accounts of the numerical advantage of the Romans over the Muslims
at different stages of the battle, showing that such advantage was tenfold or
higher.

!2There are varying accounts of how much later verse 8:66 was revealed after verse 8:65,
but two of the battles in question happened after the death of the Prophet (PBUH), so there
is no doubt that they happened after the revelation of verse 8:66.

13In the Byzantine era, where they still referred to themselves as Roman.

5. THE Bic THREE 5.2. STEADFASTNESS IN BATTLE (8:65)

Yarmuk was a culmination of battles between Muslims and Romans that
started with the Moata incursion (4% 35;¢) in the 8th hijri year. Again, the Ro-
man army was far bigger than twofold the Muslim army (Al-Maraghi [69] and
Al-Ghali [43]). Moata was followed by the campaign of Osama ibn Zayd (RA)
(Zstal <x) in the 11th hijri year in which the Muslims prevailed against the
numerically superior enemy.

While estimates of the exact ratios of armies in these battles vary, the evi-
dence is overwhelming that within these battles, the Muslims fought an army
that was more than twice their size. Even if they only perceived that it was
more than twice their size, they would not have fought it in defiance of the
Quranic directive that the abrogation claim implies. The only conclusion is
that no such directive existed, thus the abrogation claim is not valid. The
leaders who ordered these battles, namely Abu-Bakr (RA) and Umar (RA), are
revered Muslims who would not go against Quranic instructions.

e The details of these battles point to an important observation that goes
against interpreting verses 8:65-66 as dictating the acceptable army ratios.
The reality of the battlefield makes such ratios critically dependent on the mil-
itary considerations of each situation. For example, with superior weaponry,
and depending on the nature of the terrain and the element of surprise, the
acceptable army ratios would vary significantly.

Indeed, in the battle of Yarmuk, Khalid Ibn Al-Walid (Ra) took advantage of
some of these factors to achieve a decisive victory against an enemy whose army
was many times bigger than the Muslim army. In modern times, a superior
air force can wipe out a vastly bigger army (Al-Ghali [43}).

It is worth noting that the decision to go to war is not up to individual
Muslims who assess the situation and then decide whether to go to war. The
decision is up to the Muslim leadership based on military considerations (Nada
(190]), and Muslims must follow that decision.!4 The above historical evidence
shows that the Muslim leadership decided to fight under circumstances that
the abrogation claim would have not allowed.

The inescapable conclusion is that the documented history of Islamic battles
provides decisive evidence against this abrogation claim.

e Let us now address the narrations about verses 8:65-66, many of which are
attributed to Ibn Abbas (RA), and most have not been found to be authentic
by the major narration scholars. For example, Al-Tabari [107] reports more
than ten narrations. Only two of the narrations attributed to Ibn Abbas
(RA) are reported in Al-Bukhari [35]. Other books add some narrations of
varying authenticity, including a third narration attributed to Ibn Abbas (Ra)
and authenticated centuries later by Al-Albani [10]. Let us look at the three

M4In a Prophetic narration authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35], the Prophet (PBUH) says
"and if you are mobilized [to fight], do it" (\,,a pide 13) 9).

5. THE Bic THREE 5.2. STEADFASTNESS IN BATTLE (8:65)

authenticated narrations of Ibn Abbas (RA).

In the two narrations authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35], Ibn Abbas (Ra) uses
the word 'ease' rather than 'abrogate' in describing the effect of verse 8:66 on
verse 8:65. This would be consistent with the first reconciliation argument we
pine: In addition, in one of the two narrations, Ibn Abbas (RA) states

"so when God eased the count [tenfold down to twofold] on them, He reduced

from the patience as much as was eased on them" (543i os mee y oe CG

mee el L yay pall 4 62%) which would be consistent with the second
reconciliation argument.

In the narration authenticated by Al-Albani [10], Ibn Abbas (RA) states
that if a Muslim escaped from three enemy fighters, he would not be consid-
ered as having escaped. While this would be consistent with the abrogation
claim, it is also consistent with the third reconciliation argument which points
out that fighting a tenfold ratio was only a recommendation, not a require-
ment. Furthermore, some scholars disagree with the opinion reported in this
narration.

In his book that preceded Al-Albani by centuries, Al-Zahiri [121] exclaims
that "it is perplexing that someone says that [verse 8:66] allows the escape of
one confronted by three. How I wonder from where did that occur to them?
Is there in the verse a mention of escape or turning one's back in any facet, or
a pointer to it and an evidence of it? The verse does not have any of that at
all."

e Some narrations of varying authenticity by other early Muslims also talk
about escaping from battles with more than twofold numerical disadvantage,
not just avoiding these battles before they begin. Escaping would be in direct
contradiction to Quranic instruction,

395 BUN th J NE 5 ype Sul, aa altel)

ABN So Sak, 25 SS 2s Jy thst ST law Bese YESS aay ds
pyre: Jus Seal phy as aiges

[8:15-16] O you who have believed, when you encounter those who
disbelieve attacking, do not turn your backs to them. And whoever
turns his back to them that day, except in a tactic of war or to join
with reinforcements, then he has ended up with wrath from God and
his refuge is hellfire; how wretched a destination.

The stern warning in these verses leaves no doubt that quitting the fight is
forbidden. There is no limit given here to the relative sizes of the army (AI-
Zahiri [121]); the command is absolute.

Additional narrations that were not found to be authentic present oppos-

5. THE Bic THREE 5.2. STEADFASTNESS IN BATTLE (8:65)

ing views about the abrogation claim. For example, a narration attributed to
Al-Suddi mentions abrogation explicitly (Al-Tabari [107]) while another at-
tributed to Ibn Abbas (RA) states that verse 8:65 does not require Muslims
to fight an army that is tenfold their size, but just urges it (Al-Tabari [107)),
which is exactly what the third reconciliation argument asserts.

In summary, the historical evidence related to this abrogation claim tilts
strongly against the claim. The narrations about verses 8:65-66 offer mixed
views that are inconclusive about the claim. Given the three credible reconcil-
iation arguments presented in Step C, the evidence to support this abrogation
claim falls far short of the high burden of proof required for a valid claim
(§2.1), a burden that was agreed by the pro-abrogation scholars themselves.

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Several pro-abrogation scholars rejected this abrogation claim. Among
them:

Al-Nahhas [71] rejected the claim based on the premise that the first verse
is not a binding command, and is still valid as an option (3rd reconciliation).

Al-Qurtubi [80] agrees with the opinion that 8:66 eases, but does not ab-
rogate, the command in 8:65.

Al-Zahiri [121] rejects the abrogation claim with an elaborate discussion,
emphasizing that the reduction in ratios is contingent on weakness (1st rec-
onciliation).

Al-Razi [83] adopts Al-Asfahani's view that, based on contingency, there
is no abrogation.

Hasaballah [139] rejects this claim with definitive language.

Qutb [191] reconciles the two verses as statements of fact, not commands.
Al-Zahiri also alluded to that in his discussion.

Al-Shaarawi [92] rejected the claim based on the contingency argument.
F) Conclusion:

The historical evidence of early Islamic battles, such as Yarmuk, provides
decisive evidence against this abrogation claim. In addition, the two verses
that are subject to the claim, verses 8:65-66, can be reconciled based on their
own verbiage as follows,

The believers are urged to be steadfast and fight enemy armies
even if those are ten times in size. Under conditions of weak-
ness, they should still be steadfast enough to fight armies that
are twice their size. God is with the steadfast; they will prevail
with His permission.

5. THE Bic THREE 5.3. NIGHT PRAYER (73:1-4)

5.3 Night Prayer (73:1-4)

This is the last claim among the 'big 3. Chronologically, the verses claimed
abrogated here were revealed the earliest among all verses in any abrogation
claim; they date back to the first year of Prophethood.!° The claim pertains
to whether praying late at night had been mandated on Muslims and then the
mandate was lifted.

A) The claim:

The verses

NOWBSs abi Mio S18] Ls @ Leneiep
tors pnd ss ob is ale §
(73:1-4] O you, the bundled up! Arise in the night, except a little

- half of it, or reduce from it a little. Or add to it, and articulate the
Quran in recitation.

are claimed to be abrogated by the last verse in the same chapter:

Sys sy by Css I gl 5s SNE a os oS 8) p
WS ale US 5H ISIE Steely JRE diy Das Gal
5 Oh bi OS whys Mea ESE OI be OT Ge KG

FEUER SBE a Jone oS gh By53T5 wl LBS he 5 88S 25
[tes Jaga AS LBS SN Shs 8311315 SOLAN | taal AL,

[73:20] Your Lord knows that you [Muhammad] arise close to two-
thirds of the night, half of it, and a third of it, as well as a bevy of those
with you. God measures night and day. He knew that you [Muslims]
will not be able to finish it thus He forgave you, so recite what you
find easy to recite of the Quran. He knew that there will be among
you sick, others venturing in the land seeking from the bounty of God,
and others fighting in the cause of God, so recite what you find easy
to recite of it. And establish prayer and give alms and [figuratively]
lend God a good loan ...

The claim is widely supported, e.g., by Al-Zuhri [127], Ibn Sallam [171], Al-
Nahhas [71], Ibn Al-Jawzi [147], Al-Qurtubi [80], Al-Khazen [62], Al-Karmi
[60], and Zeid [206], among others.

15The consensus is that these verses are the third to be revealed among the 114 chapters
of the Quran.

5. THE Bic THREE 5.3. NIGHT PRAYER (73:1-4)

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

Verses 73:1-4 contain a command to arise for a good part of the night and
recite the Quran, whereas verse 73:20 acknowledges the hardship of arising in
the night and directs Muslims to recite from the Quran within their facility,
thus alleviating that hardship.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

It is straightforward to reconcile verses 73:1-4 with verse 73:20 of this
abrogation claim. Even some pro-abrogation scholars who side with the claim
mention the elements of this reconciliation argument, e.g., Ibn Al-Jawzi [147].

The reconciliation is based on a simple observation; the command in verses
73:1-4 is directed toward the Prophet (PBUH) personally (Ibn Kathir [163]),
rather than toward all Muslims, while the lightening of the burden that is
included in verse 73:20 is directed toward those Muslims who took it upon
themselves to follow the command in 73:1-4 and ended up in hardship (Hasa-
ballah [139]).

We will break the argument into 3 parts. First, we will show that the
night prayer requirement in verses 73:1-4 pertains to the Prophet (PBUH) alone.
Second, we will cite evidence that the night prayer requirement continued for
the Prophet (PBUH) years after verse 73:20 was revealed. These two parts are
sufficient to refute the abrogation claim since the command in 73:1-4 would still
be applicable after verse 73:20 was revealed. The third part is to elaborate on
how the lightening of the burden on other Muslims, which verse 73:20 brought,
fits in this argument.

First, the evidence that the original command is directed toward the
Prophet (PBUH) alone is indeed compelling:

1. The addressee in verses 73:1-4 is "the bundled up" ("A%2), an endearing
expression which God used to address the Prophet (PBUH) at a personal
level, rather than saying "O Prophet" or "O Messenger". After Al-Sayis
[90] elaborately discusses all views for and against the abrogation claim,
the verifier of the book addresses this specific point:

"What appears from directing the speech to the Prophet (PBUH) and or-
dering him to arise in the night together with calling him by the descrip-
tion that is particular to him - which is the bundling up - that the night
prayer was a requirement on him, and the requirement was particular to

him" (4 dels CilS sees Sly).

2. In a related chapter of the Quran, chapter 74 that was revealed con-
temporarily with the current chapter 73 (Al-Ghali [43]), God addresses
the Prophet (PBUH) in a very similar, endearing way "O you the cloaked

one" exes in &) in verse 74:1. In this case, the command that follows in

5. THE Bic THREE 5.3. NIGHT PRAYER (73:1-4)

verse 74:2 is patently particular to the Prophet (PBUH) and not obligatory
on all Muslims: "Arise and warn", an obligation of prophethood and not
of everyday Muslims. It stands to logic that the similarly phrased com-
mand "Arise in the night" in verse 73:2 after an almost identical opener
would also apply to the Prophet (PBUH) personally.

3. The verse immediately following the command in verses 73:1-4 provides
a rationale for this command:
[o: as Was V55 Gide alc Up

[73:5] We shall cast upon you a weighty utterance.

The weighty utterance is universally interpreted as the Quranic reve-
lations, thus the night prayers would be a preparation for the Prophet
(PBUH) to withstand the heavy task ahead (Al-Razi [83], Ibn Ashur [153},
and Qutb {191]). Since the task of prophethood is particular to him, it
stands to logic that the required preparations for it are also particular
to him. The rise-up during the night was to be a spiritual exercise for
the Prophet (PBUH); to charge him up for the heavy responsibility he has
to undertake.

4. In verse 73:20, God refers to the other Muslims who arise in the night
as "a bevy of those with you" (las agai ioe) aaslb). If arising in the night
was obligatory on all Muslims, that would not be just a 'bevy' but the
entirety of Muslims. Nada [190] elaborates this point: "the believers
knew that they were not required to arise, but a bevy of them did in
participation with the Prophet (PBUH) and following him."

Indeed, scholars argued that the fellows of the Prophet (PBUH) took it upon
themselves to do the night prayers without being required to, in their char-
acteristic way of following the footsteps of the Prophet (PBUH). As Ibn Ashur
[153] phrases it, " As for the Muslims arising in the night, they were following

the model of the Messenger (PBUH)" (he Jgu dl 43 lg dl we cna LU! als lily

Second, several scholars argued that the lightening of the burden in verse
73:20 did not remove the obligation on the Prophet (PBUH), the sole addressee
of the original command:

1. Two other verses that were revealed later than verse 73:20 reiterate the
requirement on the Prophet (PBUH) to observe the night prayer.!© These
two verses provide evidence that the night prayer requirement remained
for the Prophet (PBUH). The first verse is

16In both verses, the Arabic command is singular, not plural, and the addressee is the
Prophet (PBUH).

5. THE Bic THREE 5.3. NIGHT PRAYER (73:1-4)

CB les Bb Has SI oe AMY «SEG JIN es
[V4 : el MI
[17:79] And [a portion] of the night, spend it in prayer, an
extra for you, perhaps your Lord will send you out [on the Day of
Resurrection to] a praised station.

While the word 4b (an extra) is often used to mean an option rather
than a requirement, the phrasing 'an extra for you' implies that being
extra here is because of being particular to the Prophet (PBUH), not be-
cause of being optional per se. As the verifier of the book by Al-Sayis
[90] asserts, citing a group of scholars, "the meaning of the night prayer
being an extra for the Prophet (PBUH) is that it is an addition to what
is required of the others". Linguistically, the word 4b is defined as
'what was additional to the original' (Ibn Manzur [168] - Lisan Al-Arab
dictionary).

Ibn Ashur [153] also cites this verse as he asserts that the night prayer
requirement continued for the Prophet (PBUH), saying that this was "a rul-
ing that is particular to the Prophet (PBUH), and scholars have mentioned
it under the category of the particularities of the Prophet" (ites
Sys).

Concurring in no uncertain terms, Zeid [206] states that verse 17:79
requires the Prophet (PBUH) and him alone to observe the night prayers:
"so arising in the night was still a requirement on the Messenger of God
(PBUH) in particular" (ploy age all he all Suny cle ded Sj le Lvl eli
isl).

The other verse that also reiterates night prayers for the Prophet (PBUH)
is:

[91 LINN € SL ME Adhcs JA LN 25
[76:26] And [in a portion] of the night prostrate to Him and
exalt Him a long [part of the] night.

In fact, Al-Tabari [107] interprets verse 76:26 by explicitly likening it
to the night prayer command in verses 73:1-4. Notice that the use of
'long' to describe the duration here is consistent with the length of night
prayers in the verses of the abrogation claim; Al-Zamakhshari [124] spells
out the length intended by verse 76:26 as two-thirds, half, or one-third
of the night, matching verse 73:20.

. There are scholarly reports that the Prophet (PBUH) continued the night

prayers as an obligation long after the verses of this abrogation claim
were revealed. Ibn Kathir [163] cites the above verse 17:79 when he
asserts that "the Prophet (PBUH) was obedient to the command of God
to do the night prayers, and it was a requirement for him alone" then

5. THE Bic THREE 5.3. NIGHT PRAYER (73:1-4)

mentions verse 73:2 ("Arise in the night, except a little") as a specification
of the amount of that night prayer. Ibn Al-Arabi [144] also asserts that
"the correct is that [the requirement of night prayer] remained on him
[the Prophet (pBuH)]." and details what these night prayers were like in
practice (Ibn Al-Arabi [145]).

Third, we address the lightening of the burden that verse 73:20 brought
to other Muslims, and how it fits in this reconciliation argument.

As we discussed above, this burden was self-imposed by some Muslims,
"a bevy of those with you" as verse 73:20 describes them to the Prophet (PBUH).
This is not the only instance where early Muslims have imposed upon them-
selves a restriction beyond what was required, and Divine intervention came
to relieve them.

For example, when the fasting requirement started, Muslims started their
day's fast immediately after waking up from the night's sleep, even if it was
just a short nap and they woke up while it was still nighttime. Verse 2:187
came to clarify that fasting starts at dawn (regardless of sleeping pattern) and
that they can eat, drink, and mate with their spouses until then (Al-Qurtubi
[80]).

A notable aspect of verse 73:20 is that one of the justifications for lightening
the burden on Muslims was that some of them would be "fighting in the cause
of God" thus making the burden of arising in the night to pray excessive. As
we will see when we discuss the time line surrounding this abrogation claim
in Step D next, Muslims did not fight until the battle of Badr, more than
a decade after the revelation of verse 73:20.

Because of this fact, Al-Ghali [43] interpreted the entire verse as explaining
why God did not impose the night prayer on them in the first place, rather
than just intervening after it became burdensome since one of the reasons
mentioned in the verse (fighting in the cause of God) had not happened yet
when the verse was revealed.

There is also an aspect of the phrasing of verse 73:20 that supports this
interpretation; the verse uses future tense when it states the different reasons
("He knew that there will be among you ..." - re en 3 ole) which fits
a predetermined plan rather than an intervention after the fact. Contrast
that with the present tense used in the opener of the verse when God says to
the Prophet (PBUH): "Your Lord knows that you arise" (ee BE aes Ory 5) as
He describes the present practice of night prayers.

Whether verse 73:20 is meant to explain why night prayers were not a re-
quirement on Muslims in the first place, or only intervenes to relieve Muslims
of their self-imposed hardship, the reconciliation argument is achieved; there
is no conflict with verses 73:1-4 which imposed the requirement on the Prophet
(PBUH) alone, and this is the key point in reconciling the verses. It is a case

5. THE Bic THREE 5.3. NIGHT PRAYER (73:1-4)

in point of the Sameness validation rule; the addressees are not the same so
there is no conflict.

Given this straightforward reconciliation argument that is cited not only
by opponents of the abrogation claim but also by some of its supporters, why
is this claim so widely accepted? The burden of proof to claim abrogation
is clearly violated given such clear reconciliation. The reason is that there
are reported narrations by Aisha (RA) and Ibn Abbas (RA) that are interpreted
as supporting the abrogation claim. We will address those and other related
evidence now.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

We will discuss the narrations related to this abrogation claim, and then
address the discrepancies in the time line of events surrounding the claim.
These discrepancies are unique to this claim and have strongly impacted the
way it is analyzed by different scholars.

e Narrations

The most relevant narration regarding this claim is attributed to Aisha (Ra)
and authenticated by Muslim [189], Al-Nasai [73], and Abu-Dawoud [3], among
others. It is a long narration dealing with different subjects and there are many
minor variations in its wording among the different sources. In the part that
directly pertains to this abrogation claim, Aisha (RA) mentions chapter 73 of
the Quran and then says (in the main version by Muslim):

"God Almighty required arising in the night in the beginning of this chapter.
So the Prophet of God (PBUH) and his fellows arose [in the night] for a year.
And God held its ending for twelve months in heaven. Until God revealed, at
the end of this chapter, the easing. So arising in the night became voluntary

after [being] an obligation." ( plas .3)yuJ| ode Jil 3 qa] als 52%) ic Se Al jy
glad SG she oH esis un Gil, Vs deel, lay ale AU Le all
day key ESLS JUN AL ead at CB ygell ole Ts AUN Ugh 2).

It is completely understood why this narration, coming from the wife of the
Prophet (PBUH) who is keenly familiar with his daily life, would be persuasive
to those who support this abrogation claim. In fact, this narration is often
cited as the basis for claiming abrogation, e.g., by Zeid [206].

The key point about this narration is that it is not a first-hand account of
the events that it is reporting. Aisha (RA), the wife of the Prophet (PBUH), was
not describing events that she witnessed in their household. The night prayers
and the revelation of the verses in question happened when Aisha (RA) was at

5. THE Bic THREE 5.3. NIGHT PRAYER (73:1-4)

most 4 years old and was living in a different household.'"

Nor does the narration convey a statement by the Prophet (PBUH) or by one
of his Fellows (RA) who actually participated in those night prayers. Without
first-hand knowledge of the events or direct quotes from the participants, it is
entirely plausible that what was conveyed to Aisha (RA) about those events led
her to believe that the night prayer was a requirement on the fellows of the
Prophet (PBUH), not only on him. After all, those fellows (Ra) did treat it as
a requirement. That was the point why verse 73:20 was revealed in the first
place per the above reconciliation argument.

Furthermore, there is a discrepancy in the wording as narrated to us. The
discrepancy is that the requirement of night prayer continued for the Prophet
(PBUH) as evidenced by the other verses in the Quran, as we showed in the
reconciliation argument. This does not mesh with the narration's wording
"So arising in the night became voluntary after [being] an obligation" which,
at face value, would also apply to the Prophet (PBUH) given the context: "the
Prophet of God (PBUH) and his fellows arose [in the night] for a year" per the
wording of the narration.

This narration is the primary evidence for this abrogation claim. The other
authenticated narration that is also cited in support of the claim is reported
in Abu-Dawoud [3] in which Ibn Abbas (RA) is reported to say that verse 73:20
did naskh to verses 73:1-4. As noted repeatedly in this book, Ibn Abbas (Ra)
used the word naskh for a variety of adjustments, not only for abrogation.
Verse 73:20 certainly adjusted how Muslims reacted to verses 73:1-4, so there
is no contradiction with that.

There are further, less authentic narrations that report conflicting accounts
of events surrounding the verses of this claim. In one case, the conflict is so
clear that Al-Ghornati [47] called the narration in question a blatant lie (4S

\,2). Nonetheless, some of these narrations are widely cited in books that
ae this abrogation claim.

Finally, we reiterate that a narration by anyone other than the Prophet
(PBUH), even if authentic,!® is not sufficient to overcome the burden of proof
needed for abrogation of a Quranic verse.

e Time-Line Discrepancies

This claim is unique among all abrogation claims in terms of the discrep-
ancies that surround it. Most of these discrepancies have to do with the time
line of events. This is not unexpected. Verses 73:1-4 are the earliest revela-
tions in the Quran that have been claimed to be abrogated. There were far

17 The earliest estimate of the year of birth of Aisha (RA) is 17 years before hijra, and the
first year of Quranic revelation was 13 years before hijra, so Aisha (RA) was at most 4 years
old when verses 73:1-4 were revealed.

18Notice that all the narrations cited here are 'singles', hence uncertain in sourcing, even
if their individual chains have been authenticated.

5. THE Bic THREE 5.3. NIGHT PRAYER (73:1-4)

fewer Muslims at the time, so unsurprisingly, there is no first-hand account of
events from anyone who took part in those night prayers.

Once the abrogation claim was accepted, these discrepancies created con-
flicts that remain unresolved until this very day. We will discuss three such
instances here. As we will see, the reconciliation argument we provided in
Step C would eliminate these conflicts altogether. Once it is recognized that
73:1-4 were directed toward the Prophet (PBUH) alone and verse 73:20 came
to relieve Muslims from their self-imposed burden, both the abrogation claim
and the ensuing conflicts are rectified.

e The most blatant example of such conflict is in the timing of revelation of
verse 73:20, the verse that is claimed to abrogate verses 73:1-4. The consensus
is that verses 73:1-4 were among the earliest revelations in the Quran. As for
verse 73:20, we have seen that three major hadith scholars have authenticated
a narration by Aisha (RA) which states clearly and repeatedly that verse 73:20
was revealed one year (and specifically twelve months) after verses 73:1-4. The
narration is universally accepted and cited whenever this abrogation claim is
discussed. Nonetheless, there is a separate consensus of scholars that verse
73:20 is Medinite (Al-Ghornati [47]). This means that it was revealed after
hijra, more than a decade after the revelation of verses 73:1-4.

The discrepancy between these two time lines has not been reconciled in
the literature. Rather, it is mostly glossed over. Some scholars did try to
reconcile it. Hasaballah [139] tried to adapt the words of Aisha (RA) to the
Medinite timing: "perhaps the twelve months mentioned in the narration by
Aisha start from the requirement of [regular] prayers or from the hijra, not
from the timing of revelation of [verses 73:1-4] as is the perception".

This argument flies in the face of what the narration explicitly says; the
twelve-month gap is between the revelations of the beginning and end of chap-
ter 73, namely verses 73:1-4 and verse 73:20. The narration never mentions
anything about the requirement of regular prayers or about the hijra that
Hasaballah alludes to.

If the narration is so clear that it was a year, how did the Medinite timing
that made it more than a decade come about? One of the reasons is another
event in the time line; the battle of Badr that took place in the second year
after hijra. It was the first event in Islamic history where Muslims fought their
enemies. Verse 73:20 contains an explicit reference to fighting: "others fighting
in the cause of God", hence the argument that verse 73:20 must have been
revealed after Badr. Afana |7| supports the Medinite timing based on when
Muslims were directed to fight.

A closer look shows that this argument is not accurate. What verse 73:20
says is "[God] knew that there will be among you ... others fighting in the
cause of God". The fighting is in future tense. We have pointed out in Step C
the role of that future tense in reconciling the verses of the abrogation claim.

5. THE Bic THREE 5.3. NIGHT PRAYER (73:1-4)

The same point also reconciles the discrepancy in revelation time as it shows
that verse 73:20 is talking about fighting that is yet to occur, hence it could
have been revealed a year after verses 73:1-4, well before the battle of Badr.
Ibn Kathir [163] states that the fighting in verse 73:20 "is in the category of
telling about future unknowns".

e Another example of conflict is the reiteration of the night prayer requirement
on the Prophet (PBUH) that took place later in the time line, for example by
verse 17:79 that we discussed in detail in Step C. In supporting the current
abrogation claim, Zeid made two conflicting assertions. First, he asserted that
the requirement of night prayer on the Prophet (PBUH) himself was removed
in verse 73:20 (Zeid [206]). Then he asserted that it "was still a requirement
on the Messenger of God (PBUH) in particular" (\; ) when he discussed verse
17:79 two pages later (Zeid [206]). This discrepancy would not be there given
the reconciliation argument of the abrogation claim, as the requirement on the
Prophet (PBUH) was never removed by verse 73:20 and was just reiterated in
verse 17:79 (and in verse 76:26 as we discussed before).

e The last example of a conflict that we present here involves an opinion of
Imam Al-Shafei. Hasaballah alluded in the above quote to the requirement
of regular prayers which took place a year and a half before hijra. Al-Shafei
analyzed the time line of different requirements of prayers (details in Zeid
[206]). Al-Shafei accepted that verses 73:1-4 were abrogated, and asserted that
other abrogation steps took place in that time line in order to be compatible
with the consensus that once the regular prayers were instituted, no other
prayer was required of Muslims.

This assertion was not convincing to Hasaballah [139] who then postulated
that Al-Shafei may not have known about the narration by Aisha (RA). Zeid
was more direct with a rare disagreement with the revered Imam, rejecting his
assertion. Given the reconciliation argument that we presented, neither the
multiple abrogations nor the disagreements with Al-Shafei would be needed,
and the regular prayers would indeed be the only required prayers for Muslims,
other than the Prophet (PBUH) himself.

Perhaps it is because of these discrepancies that the support for this abro-
gation claim is often less unequivocal than other claims; some scholars mention
the opinions that mostly support abrogation without explicitly mentioning ab-
rogation as their own opinion (e.g., Al-Tabari [107]), and some provide an ac-
count of the time-line discrepancies even as they side with the abrogation
claim (e.g., Al-Thaalabi [110]). Ibn Salama [170], after asserting other abro-
gation claims, makes a single comment about this abrogation claim: "most
exegetes said that the ending of chapter 73 abrogated its beginning", without
expressing his own opinion about it.

5. THE Bic THREE 5.3. NIGHT PRAYER (73:1-4)

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Waliyullah [203] addressed this claim briefly and did not include it in the
5 abrogation claims that he approved.

Pro-abrogation exegete Al-Thaalibi [111] gave an elaborate commentary on
the verses of this claim without using the word naskh, while his commentary
on the verses involved in other abrogation claims, e.g., verse 58:12 (Al-Thaalibi
{111]), uses the word naskh explicitly.

Hasaballah [139] dismisses this claim in his conclusion, stating that the
command in 73:1-4 was directed toward the Prophet (PBUH) alone. He earlier
discussed inconclusively (Hasaballah [139]) whether the obligation of the night
prayers continued for the Prophet (PBUH).

One notable case of conflicting opinions about this claim comes from Al-
Zurgqani. Nada [190] quotes him!® disapproving the claim with an elaborate
statement based on the command in verses 73:1-4 being directed toward the
Prophet (PBUH) alone, and verse 73:20 coming to relieve the companions who
took it upon themselves to observe the night prayers without being required
to do so. In the 3rd edition of the book, Al-Zurqani [128] states in the in-
troduction that in this edition, he "added and eliminated ... and corrected
and redressed", then goes on in the section about this claim to summarily
approve it, lamenting the 'fuss and disagreement' about it without going into
any substantive details (Al-Zurqani [128]), and without addressing his earlier,
opposing opinion that was attributed to him by Nada [190].

F) Conclusion:

Verses 73:1-4 and verse 73:20 (as well as other verses mentioned in this
section are reconciled as collectively saying

Arising in the night, for certain durations, and reciting the
Quran are required of the Prophet (PBUH) as a spiritual prepa-
ration for the prophethood tasks ahead. God knows that such
a requirement would be burdensome for other Muslims who are
going through the trials of life, so God exempted them from
this requirement; they can recite from the Quran within their
facility and observe the other duties of Muslims.

u~")

In this chapter, three abrogation claims were refuted which are arguably
the strongest claims in the abrogation literature. We continue with the rest
of the famous abrogation claims in the next chapter.

19 Apparently, the quote comes from an earlier edition of Al-Zurqani's book that we were
not able to obtain.

Chapter 6

Other Famous Claims

In this chapter, we present more abrogation claims that were often cited in
the classic literature, but with less agreement on them among pro-abrogation
scholars. The merit of several of them does not measure up to their fame.
There are two sets of claims that we will address here.

The first set covers the sword-verse claims and related claims about fight-
ing. The sword-verse claims assert that more than 100 verses were abrogated
by a single verse. These claims are widely dismissed, but they warrant atten-
tion because of their sheer scope.

The second set covers Al-Suyuti's claims. His 20 claims had a historical
impact on the trajectory of the Abrogation Doctrine, becoming the de facto
starting point of discussion of abrogation in subsequent work. Some of these
claims have already been discussed in previous chapters, and the rest will be
discussed here.

6.1 Leaving a Will (2:180)

This is a famous abrogation claim and one of the twenty claims approved by
Al-Suyuti [100]. These claims will be addressed together in a later section of
this chapter, but we single out this claim here because of its merit. It is the
last abrogation claim we discuss that warrants judicious refutation.

As you can see from Appendix A.2, over ninety scholars in the literature
we surveyed have analyzed this claim. You can also see that they were split.
Half of them approved the claim of abrogation and the other half did not. The
claim has been cited often in the literature, sometimes as proof of abrogation.

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.1. LEAVING A WILL (2:180)

A) The claim:

This claim pertains to leaving a will. The verse which is claimed abrogated
is 2:180,

AGN Beh igs 33 5 5d cess pas ee OS)
Dass ad Gall fe Ss yal Gy

[2:180] Decreed upon you, when death approaches one of you if he
leaves wealth, is a will for the parents and closest relatives properly -
a duty upon the pious.

and the verses claimed to abrogate it are the inheritance rules verses, namely
4:11-12,176, that detail heirs and their shares of the estate.

The claim is supported by many scholars, including Ibn Abbas (RA) accord-
ing to Ibn Al-Jawzi [147], Ibn Sallam [171], Ibn Salama [170] although he notes
dissenting scholars, Al-Suyuti [100], Al-Karmi [60] while also noting a number
of dissenting scholars, and Waliyullah [203]. This claim is the only one that is
unequivocally supported by Hasaballah [139], but the abrogating text for him
includes a Prophetic narration (see Step D below).

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

There are two main arguments that scholars have made to show that there
is a conflict between the command in verse 2:180 and the subsequent com-
mands in the inheritance verses. The first argument is that verse 2:180 allows
the testator to determine the distribution of the estate, whereas the rules
mandated in the inheritance verses restrict this allowance. The second argu-
ment is that leaving a will as verse 2:180 instructs is no longer required since
inheritance law would supersede any will.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

Let us look closely at what verse 2:180 mandates. The verse has three
instructions:

1. That a will is required (Zeyh es Kae os ) if the testator is leaving
an estate.

2. That parents and close relatives (,. NG pully) must not be left out of
this will. :

3. That the will must be according to standards of propriety (Layfaciu).

The first instruction is about the requirement of leaving a will, while the
second and third instructions are about requirements on the content of the will.

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.1. LEAVING A WILL (2:180)

These two aspects are precisely the subjects of the two perceived conflicts that
were mentioned in the previous step. Let us start with the instructions about
the content of the will. Where is the conflict between these instructions and
what the inheritance verses subsequently mandate?

e The perceived conflict stems from a presumption that verse 2:180 provides
a juristic ruling that the testator is allowed to divide his estate among the
designated beneficiaries as he pleases, a ruling that would be annulled by
the specific prescription in the inheritance verses about who gets how much.
However, verse 2:180 contains no such juristic ruling; it only sets the general
principles of inheritance without getting into the question of shares.

Not addressing a question is not the same as mandating that the answer be
up to the testator. The answer can be subject to further mandates at a later
stage, which is often observed in Quranic commands.! Indeed, the detailed
answer to this question was mandated later - in the inheritance verses that
elaborated verse 2:180.

What is certainly true is that the assertions of verse 2:180 remained valid;
the parents and the nearest relatives remained eligible heirs, and the proper
way (44x.Jl) to divide the estate was set. The two assertions were affirmed
and detailed by the inheritance verses which designate the shares of parents
and close relatives and establish the standards of propriety.

That was the argument Al-Asfahani used to refute this claim: that in-
heritance verses are an elaboration of the generality of 2:180 (Al-Razi [83}).
Elaboration is one of the meanings that the word naskh has been used for, but
it is certainly not abrogation (see the Elaboration validation rule).

Al-Zahiri [121] focused on a simple aspect of this elaboration; he wrote
that there is nothing in 4:11-12 that prevents bequeathing to parents," so the
mandate in 2:180 that parents inherit is not annulled by the inheritance verses.

e While the specification of inheritance shares elaborates the general desig-
nation of heirs in verse 2:180, it is not the only elaboration of this verse in
the Quran. Other verses can be construed as elaborating 'the proper way'
that verse 2:180 requires. For example, in pre-Islamic Arabia, women were
deprived of inheritance. Is this proper? The Quran says it is not,
DS ee Coad cl OAs SBS lain 335 Los Camas SEG
Z oie 2 4E of 92 Fea skis ceil
[V: cL Loy h ae aed ZS 5) Abe [Be GSS I5 IAs!
[4:7] For men is a share of what parents and close relatives have
left, and for women is a share of what parents and close relatives have

lThe book by Ataya [132] provides a thorough analysis of the Quranic theme of setting
a principle first then elaborating the details later.

?There is a Prophetic narration that addresses eligibility for bequests which we will
discuss in Step D next.

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.1. LEAVING A WILL (2:180)

left - be it little or much, a mandated share.

Thus, a major principle of propriety was defined.? Another pre-Islamic prac-
tice deprived parents of inheritance in favor of sons (Al-Shaarawi [92]). After
the mandated shares were specified in verse 4:11, the verse elaborated another
principle of propriety:

ai ope ahah 1 ~ . >
eevee He 4|

[4:11] ... Your parents and your children - You ne not realize which
of them are more beneficial to you. [This is] a mandate from God.
God is All-Knowing and Wise.

thus explaining why the fixed shares mandated by the inheritance verses are
indeed the proper way of dividing the estate; our biases and favoritism regard-
ing our relatives need to be controlled so that the division of the estate would
be done properly, based on God's knowledge, not ours.

e Muslims still have some leeway in distributing their estate through bequests.
There is a limit; bequests can be at most one-third of the estate in total.4
This guarantees the original heirs at least two-thirds of their mandated shares
regardless of the bequests, so no eligible heir can be deprived of inheritance.
As noted by Al-Shawkani [96], this is a manifestation of propriety that is
captured by the words jL2* 32, meaning "not being harmed", which appear in
verse 4:12.

We can therefore conclude that while subsequent verses elaborated the im-
plementation details of the shares and elaborated the propriety in dividing the
estate, verse 2:180 is not abrogated since its guidelines regarding inheritance
remain in force. Tahir [202] points out that the verbiage of the verse, "Decreed
upon you' ' (Kile cS) and "a duty upon the pious" (pil ee Ga) , underlines
how forceful its command is.

A second argument that reconciles the verses deals with the second
perceived conflict, that leaving a will as verse 2:180 instructs is no longer re-
quired since inheritance law would supersede any will. Reconciling this conflict
is straightforward as there are cases where a will is in fact needed, notwith-
standing the inheritance law. Here are two examples:

1. Jumaa [182] enumerated cases where a will is needed, e.g., parents and
close relatives who are not Muslim do not fall under the mandated shares,

3Tbn Salama [170] claimed that 4:7 was abrogated by 4:11-12. No one else that we know
of agreed with him.
4A Prophetic narration authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35] sets this cap of one-third.

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.1. LEAVING A WILL (2:180)

but can be given bequests in the will as mandated in verse 2:180. Al-
Shaarawi [92] made the same observation and so did exegete Al-Tabari
[107]. The will would be the only vehicle to give them any part of the
estate.

2. Islamic inheritance law may not always be enforced. For instance, a Mus-
lim living in a non-Muslim country may not be able to divide his estate
as Islamic law requires unless he leaves a legal will stating that wish.
Without a will, the probate court of the country will decide how to di-
vide up his estate, and their decision may not be compatible with Islamic
law. As a matter of fact, Islamic inheritance law is not in force even in
some Muslim-majority countries.

In conclusion, nothing in the verses that elaborate the inheritance law in
Islam conflicts with any of the three provisions of verse 2:180, and there are
legitimate situations until this very day that directly necessitate the command
in verse 2:180. Therefore, there is no ground for abrogation.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

Two narrations, both attributed to Ibn Abbas (RA), support this claim.
However, hadith scholars criticized both narrations and noted that in one of
them, the sourcing is disconnected and in the other the sourcing includes
a problematic narrator, Al-Husayn ibn Wagqid, as stated by narrator appraisal
scholars such as Al-Suyuti [103] and Al-Dominy [41].

The claim of abrogation of verse 2:180 by inheritance laws is sometimes
bundled with another claim that the verse was abrogated by a narration of
the Prophet (PBUH). The narration® asserts that "there shall be no bequest to
an heir", i.e., one who normally inherits by law.

Setting aside for the moment the controversial issue of whether a Prophetic
narration can abrogate a Quranic verse, and the narration is even uncertain
in sourcing in this case, one can see some merit to that claim. Verse 2:180
appears to order a bequest be made to parents, while the narration appears
to forbid it because parents always inherit by Islamic law.

This apparent discrepancy is caused by the multiple meanings of the Arabic
word 4,25, which is a polyseme. It can mean one of three things: (i) a recom-
mendation or an instruction, which is how it is used at the beginning of verse

4:11 (2 wes - God instructs you), (ii) a legal will, which is how it is used in

verse 2:180 (ails ough Fol - the will for the parents and close relatives),

oy

or (iii) a bequest, which is how it is used in verse 4:12 (ly 29 Bey 28 by -

5Reported by Al-Tirmizi [113] and belatedly authenticated by Al-Albani [13] but found
inauthentic by several scholars, such as Ibn Al-Arabi [144]. Ibn Taymia [172] rejects the
claim that it abrogated verse 2:180.

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.1. LEAVING A WILL (2:180)

after a bequest that is willed) and in the narration "there shall be no bequest
to an heir".

With that in mind, one can see that there is no discrepancy between verse
2:180 and the narration. The verse requires a proper, legal passing of property
upon death and the narration forbids giving more than the proper share to
any heir.

Finally, as in many abrogation claims, the different behaviors of early Mus-
lims in reaction to the different verses in the claim are sometimes taken as ev-
idence that abrogation had taken place. There is no question that those who
died after verse 2:180 was revealed, but before the inheritance verses detailed
the estate shares, did not have the benefit of knowing the mandated shares
and may have legitimately followed the general guidelines of verse 2:180 and
came up with a different division of the estate.

This is a manifestation of the dynamic process that we described in §1.6.
This is the process that spanned 23 years during which the Quran was gradu-
ally being revealed and the Muslim community was learning and adapting to
its teachings. Islam was not complete until the Quran announced that fact in
verse 5:3,

Caetshs gas abate dutcth, ctets AS ELST asd. >
[r:saslll] € ... es ALLY) 2253

[5:3] .... Today | have completed for you your religion, fulfilled
upon you My favor and approved for you Islam as a religion ...

However, as we have discussed in §1.6, this does not mean that older verses
were abrogated in the course of this progression. In the present claim, the
principles set forth in verse 2:180 are valid today as they were valid the day
the verse was revealed. These principles were elaborated later by the other
verses, but they were not annulled. The conflation of these two notions in the
word naskh is the cause for many invalid abrogation claims, as we discussed
in §2.3.2.

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Al-Nahhas [71] concluded that the ruling in verse 2:180 is valid. Al-Tabari
[107] assertively stated that there was no abrogation of verse 2:180.

Zeid [206] rejected the claim after a detailed analysis, based on elaboration
versus abrogation. Al-Arid [20] also rejected the claim citing the opinions of
different scholars.

Al-Shaarawi [92] and other scholars stated that 2:180 was abrogated for the
heirs who inherit by the rulings in 4:11-12 but not abrogated for other heirs.

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.2. THE "SWORD VERSE" CLAIMS

Shaker [196] commented on that by saying that this is not called abrogation.
Indeed, a ruling which stays valid in part is not an abrogated ruling.

F) Conclusion:

We have shown that the perceived conflict between verse 2:180 and the
inheritance verses 4:11-12,176 can be reconciled, thus refuting the abrogation
claim. The following reconciliation statement can be made to express all the
verses involved and show that there is no conflict between them:

A Muslim who has an estate must ensure the proper passing
of it to his parents and close relatives after his death, follow-
ing Islamic inheritance law that defines eligible heirs and their
shares. He may bequeath to others in his will. He must leave
a legally enforceable will stating the aforementioned provisions
if one is needed, e.g., wherever this law is not automatically
enforced.

6.2 The "Sword Verse" Claims

In these famous claims, one verse that commands fighting is claimed to abro-
gate more than 100 verses that counsel tolerance. The claims are easily refuted
and have indeed been widely rejected. We opt to discuss them in some detail
not because of their merit, but because of the notoriety of claiming abrogation
for that many verses in the Quran en masse.

The name "sword verse" that was given to the abrogating verse in these
claims was coined by scholars, as the verse contains a command to fight. The
word Ci» (sword) does not appear in that verse or any other verse in the
Quran for that matter. Nor is there a verse in the Quran which God, or the
Prophet (PBUH), has called the sword verse.

A) The claim:

This verse® about fighting polytheists,

yids whys EL Sy AM Less ad Ni Lc 135
1S 36 5515 LEI Als IC SYS nhs Ba tb 8,22
[2 Aglll € cao 5 gat | ine

[9:5] Then when the sacred months" have shed, then kill the poly-

®Two other verses, 9:29 and 9:36, are considered to be the abrogating "sword verse" of
these claims by some scholars. We will discuss them in §6.2.1.
'These are months where fighting is restricted. They will be addressed again in §6.2.1.

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.2. THE "SWORD VERSE" CLAIMS

theists wherever you found them, seize them, besiege them, and sit
[in wait] for them at every vantage point. But if they should repent,
establish prayer, and give alms, then let them go on their way. Verily,
God is much Forgiving and Merciful.

is claimed to abrogate more than 100 verses in the Quran whose subject is
tolerance and coexistence. As an example, one verse is

69: ag ... SAS lb BLE 525 Spe falé cL 25 ees 25 Ge AI 55}

[18:29] And say "The truth is from your Lord, so whoever wills -
let him believe; and whoever wills - let him disbelieve" ...

and another verse is the first abrogation example given in this book:

[cor 3 adi] € ... cel ais} Y »

[2:256] There is no compulsion in religion ...

The abrogation of this verse was asserted by Ibn Salama [170].

Most of the claimants did not provide a full list of the verses that they
claimed were abrogated, but instead gave a description or a summary count of
them.® For example, Makki [184] asserted that the majority support that verse
9:5 abrogated all verses that instruct the believers to forgive or pardon the
polytheists. Ibn Salama [170] asserted that the number of verses it abrogated
is 124.

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The perceived conflict is that verse 9:5 seems to order Muslims to fight
polytheists until they accept Islam, while the verses claimed abrogated counsel
tolerance and forbid coercion into accepting Islam.

C) Reconciliation Arguments:

Who are the polytheists that verse 9:5 orders the Muslims to fight? They
are explicitly specified a few verses before the fighting order is given,

[y dagelld SEAN Gye SIBLE SW A) ob 255 all Ge Bel

[9:1] Disavowal by God and His Messenger unto |those whom you have
covenanted of the polytheists|.

8We counted all those claims in the literature that we studied and found 160 such verses.
See Appendix A.2

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.2. THE "SWORD VERSE" CLAIMS

The highlighted sentence points to covenants that were there between Muslims
and polytheists at the time the verse was revealed; thus, these are not all
polytheists at any place and at any time. They are specifically the polytheists
in the Arabian peninsula at the time of the Prophet (PBUH) who previously
attacked him and were under a non-aggression treaty that they had already
violated (as we will see shortly) when verse 9:5 was revealed.

The fact that verse 9:5 is not talking about all polytheists has been ac-
knowledged by many scholars. They had different opinions about what spe-
cific group of polytheists the verse is talking about, but they all agreed that
it is not talking about all polytheists. This is all that is needed to reconcile
the verse with the other verses it is claimed to abrogate since those verses
talk about polytheists in general. Here are some of the opinions, coming from
pro-abrogation scholars, about which group of polytheists verse 9:5 is talking
about.

Zeid [206] concludes that they are "a special group of polytheists" (_2& a3
os! gy) who had a treaty with the Prophet (PBUH) and then broke it and
allied with his enemies, while Ibn Al-Arabi [145] concludes that they are "poly-
theists who fight [the Muslims]" (pNuly ced) oS pte). Al-Zamakhshari [124]
and Al-Nasafi [72] both characterize them as those "who broke their treaties
with you (Muhammad) and allied with others against you". Al-Baydawi [31]
restricts it to "violators [of the treaty]".

If one needs further proof that the objects of fighting in verse 9:5 are not
all polytheists, one only needs to look at the immediate next verse,

aa SPANOS ook ee a eee A aa to Oe
rs o '7 eng: o> s 2) =J ee ed
idyll { .. Auk
[9:6] And if any one of the polytheists seeks your protection, then

grant him protection so that he may hear the words of God. Then
deliver him to his place of safety ...

The polytheist in this verse is not subjected to any of the commands in the
previous verse, 9:5. On the contrary, he is to be helped by the Muslims then
taken to safety without any demand that he abandon polytheism. This fact
is undeniable; the verse is talking about polytheists, and it does not require
accepting Islam for them to be delivered to safety. Even Qutb [191], who
wrote a stern commentary about polytheists, goes on to interpret this verse
as saying that "God mandated on Muslims to protect them" an oe alll teas

rrpery ol er'YI jlo) even if they reject an invitation to Islam.

Therefore, polytheism, in and of itself, is not what triggers the ruling of
verse 9:5. Nonetheless, the claimants of abrogation extend the scope of the
ruling to all polytheists, everywhere, perpetually after a certain point in time.

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.2. THE "SWORD VERSE" CLAIMS

Their rationale for this extension may have come from the opening words of
the verse,

[o: ell] {.. 3 apes lpaval IS\3

[9:5] Then when the sacred months have shed, then ...

which trigger the fighting order once the sacred months have ended. The
perception that the order extends indefinitely comes from interpreting the
words of the verse as indicating that the order, once triggered, continues in
perpetuity, everywhere, for all polytheists. This imposes a meaning on the
words that they do not bear:

1. Al-Ghali [43] counters the perpetual extension with an example. If you
tell your child "go to sleep once you finish studying", this does not mean
that the child should continue to sleep forever. The circumstances of the
order are understood from the context, the same way that the circum-
stances in the verse are understood from its context.

2. The polytheists being addressed are the specific group stated in verse
9:1. To deviate from that meaning and seek a different interpretation
that creates conflict with other Quranic verses would be the opposite
of what the burden of proof for abrogation claims mandates. We are
required to reconcile the verses "through any facet of interpretation"
chests) ogmy cys Aoy ol (Al-Zurqani [128]), not seek conflict through any
facet of interpretation.

Once it is clear that the polytheists in verse 9:5 are a specific group that does
not cover all polytheists, there is no conflict between fighting this group and
coexisting with polytheists in general as mandated in more than 100 other
verses in the Quran. Verse 9:5 only makes an exception to that coexistence
mandate for a particular, guilty group. Exception is not abrogation.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

e The first piece of evidence against abrogation looks in detail at the context of
verse 9:5, from verse 9:1 to verse 9:6. These verses show continuity of subject
(SCIA [201}) that confirms that the group of polytheists specified in verse 9:1
(namely "those whom you have covenanted of the polytheists") is indeed the
same group against which verse 9:5 mandates fighting, thus supporting the
above reconciliation argument. Here is what the verses say, with parts that
depend on other verses put between brackets.

1. Verse 9:1 declares an end to non-aggression treaties with the polytheists
who were under those treaties [but violated them, per 9:4].

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.2. THE "SWORD VERSE" CLAIMS

2. Verse 9:2 gives those polytheists a four-month grace period before the
non-aggression comes to an end.

3. Verse 9:3 tells those polytheists to reconsider their militancy against
Islam.

4. Verse 9:4 clarifies that the polytheists who have respected the terms of
their treaty with Muslims are exempt, and instructs Muslims to allow
the treaty with these people to continue to term. The four-month period
mentioned in verse 9:2, therefore, does not apply to them.

5. Verse 9:5 instructs Muslims, when the grace period ends, to attack the
polytheists [only those who violated their treaties, per 9:4], fight them
vigorously, and kill them unless they decide to accept Islam.

6. Verse 9:6 instructs the Prophet (PBUH) to accept the refuge of any poly-
theist who seeks refuge with him from the fight, give him a chance to
hear the words of God, then accompany him to a place where he will be
safe.

e Another set of evidence against abrogation comes from the practice of the
fellows of the Prophet (PBUH) after he died, hence after verse 9:5 was revealed.
When they entered foreign lands, they always allowed the natives to keep prac-
ticing their religions (Mulhim [188]). If verse 9:5 had mandated the conversion
of everyone to Islam by force, the Fellows (RA) would not have let non-Muslims
practice their religions freely and openly.

e There is also evidence against the abrogation claims coming from some of
the verses that are claimed abrogated themselves. How is that? There are
passages within these verses that are statements of fact. As such, they are
unabrogatable per the Facts validation rule, and they reaffirm the principles
of tolerance and coexistence. Zeid [206] lists more than 20 instances of these
passages. Here are two examples,

€ Gps) CA Ya 51,5885 5 25 LE 5 5ll l Jnt B Lgbslds
[yar 33 aN]
[2:190] Fight in the way of God those who fight you but do not
transgress. Indeed, God does not like transgressors.

The highlighted passage is a statement of fact, therefore it cannot be abro-
gated. The statement goes against the interpretation of verse 9:5 as a com-
mand to fight all polytheists including those who are peaceful and did not
initiate any aggression against Muslims. The other example is

ZZ

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.2. THE "SWORD VERSE" CLAIMS

{ENN Vy le by as age aloyi is 15521 8 )
[tA : Sy _ddl]

[42:48] So if they turn away - then We have not sent you [O
Muhammad] over them as a guardian; you need only convey [the
message] ...

which is a statement that goes against the interpretation of verse 9:5 as a li-
cense to coerce all polytheists into Islam.

What these Quranic statements refute is precisely what the abrogation
claims advocate, namely attacking polytheists even if they did not initiate
hostility and coercing them into Islam. Notice that we are not just arguing
that the two verses are not abrogated by the sword verse. We are arguing that
the sword verse did not abrogate tolerance and coexistence in any verse at all,
because the interpretation of the sword verse that would support abrogation
conflicts with these Quranic statements, so that interpretation must be false.

e The bulk of the evidence supporting the abrogation claims of the sword
verse comes from narrations by the early scholars, such as Ibn Abbas (RA) and
Al-Sadusi, who often used the word naskh in its broad meaning which covers
all aspects of subsequent statements about a ruling such as elaboration and
exception, in addition to abrogation.

It is only later convention that limited the meaning of the word naskh
to abrogation only and that has caused countless misunderstandings of ear-
lier opinions about what was abrogated and what was simply elaborated (see
§2.3.2). In this case, there is no question that verse 9:5 elaborated other
verses by making an exception to tolerance and coexistence, excluding a spe-
cific group of violators. However, this is exception not abrogation.

e Finally, there is a narration by the Prophet (PBUH) about fighting people and
accepting Islam.? This narration is often cited as proof of the sword-verse
abrogation claims. The narration does not make any reference to the sword
verse or to abrogation, but its subject matter is indeed seen as conflicting with
tolerance and coexistence.

If that is the case, this would be an argument that the narration itself, not
the sword verse, abrogated the Quranic verses about tolerance and coexistence.
Nothing has changed in what the sword verse itself says. We have already
established that the verse is about a special group of polytheists and that
does not abrogate anything.

A narration abrogating the Quran is not a possibility, though (Al-Shafei
[94], among numerous pro-abrogation scholars, as we will discuss in Appendix
A.7). This does not mean that narrations should be ignored. An authentic

°The text of the Prophetic narration, and analysis of the word 'people' (Wl) in it, are
included in side note 22.

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.2. THE "SWORD VERSE" CLAIMS

Prophetic narration is a significant piece of evidence that should be taken into
consideration together with the Quranic evidence. This brings into focus a key
point:

Key Point

y This book is not trying to deduce the final ruling on fighting or

on any other subject for that matter. The discussion here is not
about what the final ruling is. It is about what body of evidence needs
to be taken into consideration to arrive at the final ruling.

This is why the abrogation question is pivotal. Once it is shown that
the sword verse did not abrogate the abundant evidence in the Quran about
tolerance and coexistence, a scholar can approach the deduction of the final
ruling judiciously by considering all evidence, without ignoring the bulk of tt
in the name of abrogation.

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Support for this blanket abrogation claim waned considerably in later gen-
erations. Al-Suyuti did not include it in his approved twenty claims, and
practically every scholar who came after him followed suit, often without men-
tioning the sword verse at all, e.g., Waliyullah [203]. Pro-abrogation scholar
Zeid [206] wrote a particularly thorough refutation of the claim.

F) Conclusion:

Verse 9:5 is in a context that explains it. It must not be taken out of
context. It can be reconciled with the verses that mandate tolerance and
coexistence as follows,

Muslims are ordered to put an end to hostility toward Islam
from those who have violently attacked them and breached
their treaties with them. Those violators forfeited their safety
and freedom through this aggression. Others who are not ag-
gressors must be protected and are not to be coerced into Islam.

6.2.1 Fighting Claims

There are other verses in the Quran about fighting that are also involved in
abrogation claims. Here, we will cover those that are related to famous claims.

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.2. THE "SWORD VERSE" CLAIMS

We start with two verses that are considered by a minority of scholars to
be the "sword verse" that they claim abrogated scores of verses, instead of
the more widely recognized verse 9:5. Some refer to all three verses as "verses
about fighting" (Jus! ob!) instead. The first of the two verses is

(rt: Syl] f .. BE 25 sbi US BE GS RA btis ... p
[9:36] ... And fight against the polytheists collectively as they fight
against you collectively ...

where the claimants view the qualification "collectively" (a1) in the verse as
extending the command to fight all polytheists, anywhere, anytime. There
are two flaws with this interpretation. First, the verse specifically conditions
the command to fight on being fought ("as they fight against you"), so we
are back to defense against aggressors, not aggression against peaceful people.
Second, the adverb "collectively" could qualify the subject, not the object, so
the verse could mean "all of you fight the polytheists", not "you fight all the
polytheists", and that would be a call for the unity of Muslims at time of war
(Al-Ghali [43]).

point of interest

Fighting commands may sound harsh, but they are dealing with
reality. If Muslims are violently attacked and they do not respond
in kind, they will be slaughtered with impunity. The Quran em-
powers Muslims with the necessary tools to defend themselves so
as not to let misplaced benevolence jeopardize their lives and well-
being.

The second verse, which is less often considered to be the "sword verse", is

Bi 655 GONE SG oS pide hy OLE Y gl 1 h6 >
CF ASSEN Nghe SE USI Sgt Gell Se GAN Gee Great V5 453
[0 Sell € OSS aby 28
[9:29] Fight those who do not believe in God nor in the Final Day,
nor make unlawful what God and His Messenger have made unlawful,
nor adopt the religion of truth, among those who were given the
Scripture - [fight] until they give the jizya (mandatory tax) handily
while they are humbled.

Most scholars refer to this verse as the "jizya verse" instead. The verse autho-
rizes Muslims to require a tax that is paid without resistance from non-Muslims

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.2. THE "SWORD VERSE" CLAIMS

who live under Islamic rule. Muslims are required to pay their own tax, the
zakah, so the jizya levels the playing field of financial obligations. It is difficult
to see how this verse can be viewed as abrogating anything about tolerance
and coexistence. Tolerance does not mean appeasing the freeloaders.

There are other, less famous claims related to fighting, which we mention in
§7.8 and §8.2. We now finish this section with claims about verses that speak
of forbidding fighting during the sacred months,!° or inside the Sacrosanct
Mosque in Mecca, such as 2:217 and 5:2. Let us examine these two claims in
more detail.

Sacred months and mosque (2:217 and 5:2)

Al-Suyuti approved the abrogation claims of these two verses in his list of 20
claims (§6.3). Other scholars agreed, but had different views about what was
abrogated. According to Shula [199], it is an almost universal opinion that the
first verse,

g
a,

Jas F385 (95 103 SSB sb JS oA ll ge CEILS
pSV hal ahh She ST Abe SBN EUS 5 ell aot «3555 all
[WV : 3,2] € .. Jal Ge

(2:217| They ask you about the sacred month; fighting therein?
Say fighting therein is a major sin but shunning away from the way of
God, disbelieving in Him, and the Sacrosanct Mosque and evicting its
attendants from it is a bigger sin in the eyes of God, and persecution
is worse than killing ...

was abrogated by the sword verse. He identified fighting in the sacred month
as what was abrogated. Al-Suyuti agrees with what was abrogated, but he
said that the abrogating verse is verse 9:36, which is one of the 'other' sword
verses that we have just discussed.

This claim ignores the parts of the verse that say that persecution is a big-
ger sin in the eyes of God then killing, hence Muslims must fight back the
polytheists who attack them even if that happens during a sacred month.
Self-defense has a higher priority. When there is no urgency, the default is
not to fight. That makes the no-fight ruling still valid at normal times. A rul-
ing that remains valid at times is not an abrogated ruling.

A related claim that fighting at the Sacrosanct Mosque has become allowed
is the abrogation claim against the second verse,

10 As we alluded to before, a sacred month (el pdi_¢+!) is any of the four designated months
in a hijri year where fighting is restricted.

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

5 Gh 5 pg sel Vy ht aes (2 Vea Gaal Gilg >
[6:58 { .. AAI Coch GAT Ys SI

[5:2] O you who have believed, do not violate the rites of God nor
[the sanctity of] the sacred month nor the animals offered or marked
for sacrifice nor [the safety of] those heading to the Sacred House ...1!

which is claimed abrogated by

535 Al satis od 5G £2 6 SH aT a aly >
[8A: dagell] ... AB ele

[9:28] O you who have believed, verily the polytheists are but filth,
so they are not to approach the Sacrosanct Mosque after this year ...

While verse 9:28 does not mention fighting, the claimant may have pre-
sumed that fighting is the only way to stop the polytheists from entering the
mosque. However, this task can be achieved with armed guards outside the
mosque area. That is the significance of the word 'approach' in the verse.

Another angle for the abrogation claim is that what is abrogated is "[the
safety of] those heading to the Sacred House" since the polytheists would be
prevented if they head to it. Al-Ghali [43] points out that the remainder of
verse 5:2 qualifies those headed toward the Sacred House as "seeking bounty
and approval from their Lord" (rear we) oe Sei ye), hence the verse is
talking about Muslim pilgrims not polytheist pilgrims who worship multiple
idols, so there is no conflict with verse 9:28.

Al-Suyuti [100] offers a third angle for abrogation, focusing on "[the sanctity
of] the sacred month" in verse 5:2 and claiming that it was abrogated by the
allowance to fight in the sacred month. This is refuted the same way the
claim about verse 2:217 was refuted; the sanctity of the sacred month forbids
aggression during that month, but defense is always allowed.

6.3 Al-Suyuti's Twenty

Al-Suyuti [100] listed twenty abrogation claims that he approved, and stated
that no other claims were valid. Most abrogation scholars who came after him
agreed largely on the latter but refuted some of the twenty claims he approved.
We present his full list of abrogation claims here, in the order of the Quranic
script.

lThe Sacred House (alps cwl) is an alternative reference to the Sacrosanct Mosque
(el ped] teenel!) in Mecca.

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

point of interest

Al-Suyuti initially listed 21 claims, in almost the same order as the
Quranic script. He then eliminated two of them (verse 4:8 about
inheritance charity and verse 24:58 about home etiquette, which
will be discussed in §8.3) and added the claim about verse 2:115,
making the total 20.

These twenty claims vary in how strong they are. The nine strongest claims
have already been covered in previous chapters and in the first section of this
chapter. Pointers to where they were discussed will be given. As we discuss
the remaining claims, we will do so less elaborately since these claims are easier
to refute.

1. Prayer direction (2:115)

The change of the gibla (the direction Muslims face when praying) is a notable
event in Islamic history that is detailed in the Quran (Al-Tabari [107]). In the
second hijri year, the Prophet (PBUH) was instructed in verse 2:144 to direct
the prayer toward the Sacrosanct Mosque in Mecca. Up till that point, the
direction had been toward the Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem.

This event is often cited as an undeniable example of abrogation. However,
what was abrogated in this case was not a Quranic verse, since praying toward
the Aqsa Mosque was a matter of tradition rather than a Quranic ruling.
Therefore, this example does not belong to the Abrogation Doctrine which
concerns itself only with claims of abrogation of verses within the Quranic
script.

However, there is another claim about the prayer direction that asserts
an abrogation of a Quranic ruling, that of verse 2:115. Al-Suyuti initially did
not include this claim in his tally, but later decided to add it (Al-Suyuti [100}).
The claim pertains to whether prayer direction may be any direction or just
toward Mecca.

A) The claim:

The verse claimed abrogated is,

(hohe fey hn 8y stay 235 iS cl G2 bch aby p
[\vo:3 all]
[2:115] And to God belongs the East and the West, so, wherever

you turn - there is the Face of God. Verily, God is Capacious and
All-Knowing.

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

and the verse claimed to have abrogated it is,

ads J5s WLS Mis GENE EN 3 yds CAB 6H 5 >
[ess all] (0B Aaa SS 115s Se hiss el Al acl 5d

[2:144] We do see the turning over of your face into the sky, there-
fore We shall ordain to you a prayer direction that you approve. Direct
your face toward the Sacrosanct Mosque, and wherever you all may
be, direct your faces toward it ...

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The argument for abrogation has been that verse 2:115 allows any direction
during a prayer, while verse 2:144 restricts it toward Mecca only.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

The reconciliation of the two verses is straightforward. Verse 2:115 does
not refer to a prayer direction at all. It simply states one of the attributes of
God: that He is everywhere. God is never restricted to any one place. Exegete
Al-Tabari [107] emphasized this point. Therefore, to anyone who asks where
God is, verse 2:115 answers.

It is verse 2:144 that explicitly mentions the prayer direction. Before the
revelation of 2:144, Muslims did not have Quranic instructions on which di-
rection to face when performing their prayers. The Muslims in Medina did as
the Jews there did; they faced Jerusalem, which to them is North (Al-Tabari
[107]).

However, the Prophet (PBUH) was unhappy about that direction as verse
2:144 alludes to with the words "the turning over of your face into the sky". He
loved his hometown Mecca and wished that Muslims prayed toward it. That
is exactly what 2:144 instructed him to do.

A second argument presented by Al-Zalmi [123] rejects the claim be-
cause verse 2:115, even if it is interpreted to be about prayer direction, remains
in effect when a Muslim cannot determine which direction Mecca is. A ruling
which continues to be in effect in some circumstances is a ruling that was not
abrogated. Al-Qattan [78] agrees.

A third argument simply notes that verse 2:115 is a statement of fact
about where God is, thus it cannot be abrogated per the Facts validation rule.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

One narration, attributed to Ibn Abbas (ra) (see Appendix A.3), states
a support for this claim. Ibn Abi-Hatem [142] mentioned that Al-Hakem

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

authenticated the narration, but most other scholars of narrations did not
find its chain reliable because it included a narrator, Al-Khorasani, who has
been much criticized by narrator appraisal scholars.

There is another verse that is claimed to be the abrogating verse of verse
2:115,

BS Ve E255 eld apd 5B De; dp ESS LS 5 }
[Vor : 3 atl] { ... lk Eni sos 1355
[2:150] And wherever you go out, turn your face toward the Sacro-

sanct Mosque. And wherever you all may be, turn your faces toward
it ...

This is a slightly more plausible claim, because, like verse 2:115, verse 2:150
does not mention a prayer direction, but says "wherever you go out" which
sounds the same as "wherever you turn" in verse 2:115. However, a similar
reconciliation argument would apply here. Verse 2:150 does not say that facing
Mecca when going out is because that is where God is.

As we mentioned earlier, several pro-abrogation scholars have argued that
2:144 abrogated the practice of facing Jerusalem. While this is true, we reit-
erate that it does not make for a valid abrogation claim within the Abrogation
Doctrine, since the decision to face Jerusalem was not by Quranic order. The
ruling in 2:144 is a new order without precedence within the Quran.

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Ibn Abi-Hatem [142] mentioned two narrations authenticated by Al-Tirmizi
and narrated by Mujahid and Ibn Umar (RA) refuting the claim by offering their
reconciling interpretations of the verses. Among the pro-abrogation scholars
who rejected the claim of abrogation of 2:115 were Al-Tabari [107], Al-Nahhas
[71], Ibn Al-Jawzi [147], Al-Zurqani [128] and Al-Qattan [78].

F) Conclusion:

In summary, we can make this reconciliation statement that combines all
the above verses without conflict,

God is not in any one place. Whatever direction you happen
to be facing, God is there. Do not think that you can only
call upon God if you are facing Jerusalem or Mecca or any
other place. For the ritual prayers though, God mandates
that you always face the Sacrosanct Mosque in Mecca if you
can determine that direction.

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

2. Leaving a will (2:180)

See §6.1.

3. Fasting night (2:183)

This claim pertains to whether fasting Muslims are forbidden to mate with
their spouses on fasting nights.

A) The claim:

In addition to Al-Suyuti, Shula [199] reported that people whom he did
not name have claimed that

be Godll BOS US pe eae GS LUT gol ET >
[ar 32d ¢ 6 98S AL eS

[2:183] O you who have believed, decreed upon you is fasting as
it was decreed upon those before you so that you may watch out [for
God].

was abrogated by

[Vay 3 all] € ... -2asc3 J] 255) eal ad 2) [ip
[2:187] lt has been allowed to you, the eve of fasting, to mate with
your wives ...

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

What caused some people to think abrogation here is that they knew of
people of the Scripture!? who would not mate with their wives on fasting
nights and they thought that verse 2:183 was saying that Muslim fast is like
the fast of prior nations.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

The aforementioned understanding, which gave rise to a conflict, is mis-
taken because what verse 2:183 states is that fasting has become decreed on
Muslims just as it was decreed on prior people. It does not say that the
conduct or rituals are the same. For example, abstaining from all food and

12This expression (CLS at - literally 'people of the book') refers to Christians and Jews,
followers of previous scriptures in the Abrahamic tradition.

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

drink from dawn to sunset every day in Ramadan is certainly not how previ-
ous nations practiced fasting. What is the same is only the mandate to fast.
Therefore, no abrogation case needs to be made. Shula [199] confirmed this
understanding and said that others have said the same.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

Shula [199] wrote that the cause of the impression that mating with wives
on fasting night was forbidden is that Umar (RA) and other Fellows (RA) observed
that. Verse 2:187 can then be seen as correcting this practice, not abrogating
verse 2:183 which does not assert such practice in the first place.

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] rejected the claim based on the interpretation of the
phrase "as it was decreed" to mean a simile of mandate, not of practice, which
is the reconciliation argument we presented in point C above. Waliyullah [203]
agreed.

Ibn Al-Arabi [144] rejected the claim on the basis of specification. He
considered night mating to have been an allowance specific for Muslims.

F) Conclusion:

Simply,

Fasting is decreed upon Muslims as it was decreed upon nations
before them. Its rules for Muslims may differ from the rules
for nations before them, but they all have a mandate to fast.

An interesting comparison to note: This claim is similar to the night prayer
claim that was discussed in §5.3. In both claims, and in other abrogation
claims as well, something was understood to be required at first, then the
Quran clarified that it was not required. In the night prayer case, it was the
understanding that all Muslims are required to do the night prayers. In the
present claim, it was the understanding that Muslims are required to abstain
from mating with their spouses during fasting nights. Neither understanding
was correct, and the Quran clarified that.

4. Fasting exemption (2:184)

See §4.3.

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

5. Sacred month (2:217)

This claim, together with the claim about verse 5:2, was refuted in §6.2.1
based on the distinction between waging war and self-defense.

6. Widows residence (2:240)

See §4.1.

7. Thought Accountability (2:284)

See §4.5.

8. True piety (3:102)

See §3.4.

9. Debauchery penalty (4:15-16)

See §4.4.

10. Promises of inheritance (4:33)

This claim addresses promises of a share of inheritance that were made to
unrelated people.

A) The claim:

Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] reported that Al-Sadusi said that verse 4:33,

vlad a a ern was 2aici E48E Spill 2:

[4:33] .... And to phe to your vows obligated you - give
them their share ...

was abrogated by
Gee ally Gots) Gs atl US B Uae U5! ea PEL ~
Pr haN f .. Byjee c2asta gl dl iplads OY

\

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

[33:6] ... And relatives by the wombs are more entitled to each
other in the Book of God than to the believers and the migrants (from
Mecca), unless you do to your associates a recognized goodness ...

Al-Suyuti [100] wrote that the abrogating verse is
[ve: SWAN ¢ ... abl GUS 3 Gare Jil GBS PES slyly

[8:75] ... And relatives by the wombs are more entitled to each
other in the Book of God ...

Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] also wrote that the majority have agreed with the claim,
such as Malik, Al-Shafei, and Ibn Hanbal.

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The perceived conflict is that promises made to allies and non-relatives, per
verse 4:33, may consume an estate and leave little or nothing to closer relatives
of the decedent. However, verses 33:6 and 8:75 assert that close relatives have
a priority.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

Verse 4:33 commands that promises of a share of inheritance should be
honored at estate distribution, but this can be treated as a bequest while
the close relatives get their mandated shares, which is what verses 33:6 and
8:75 require. It is a ranking of entitlement. Notice that verse 33:6 itself
makes an exception of honoring promises made to allies, calling it a recognized
goodness: "unless you do to your associates a recognized goodness". Thus, verse
33:6 confirms, rather than abrogates, verse 4:33.

As for the dilemma that a promise of an inheritance share made to an ally
may consume much of the decedent's estate leaving little or nothing to the
close relatives, that dilemma is easily solved by observing the limit the Prophet
(PBUH) made on bequest size not to exceed a third of the estate. Notice that
verse 4:33 says "give them their share", not what was promised per se. Their
share is a bequest.

Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] reported that Abu-Hanifa rejected this claim and saw
it as a priority setting. He ruled that if the decedent left close relatives, they
inherit according to the rules set by the inheritance verses and the ally does
not, but if the decedent had no close relatives and had made a promise of
inheritance to an ally then the ally gets the estate and nothing goes to the
treasury.

A second argument is due to Al-Asfahani [21]. He wrote that the clause

"those whom your vows obligated you - Siuasl Raney Aaa", in verse 4:33, means

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

spouses and that their share (4¢..25) was detailed in verse 4:12. He argued
that marriage is called a 'knot' (sds, derived from the same verb as 'obli-
gated' 214%, which is used in the verse claimed abrogated) more than once

in the Quran. For example, rae SESS) he Ss cS Petts eyes SG S33
[sve :3 all] rf .. ("... And do not decide on the marriage knot until the prescrip-
tion (grace or mourning period) reaches its term ..." [2:235]). That makes his
interpretation linguistically valid.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

Mujahid and Ibn Jubair opined that the share mentioned in verse 4:33
refers to promises of mutual defense not to money, while Ibn Abbas (Ra) con-
sidered it to be the inheritance of non-blood relatives that were made brethren
through the migration from Mecca to Medina (Ibn Al-Jawzi [147]).

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Abu-Hanifa rejected the claim on the basis of prioritizing entitlement to
an estate (Ibn Al-Jawzi {147]).

Mujahid and Ibn Jubair rejected the claim by interpreting verse 4:33 to
be referring to mutual defense and not wealth (Ibn Al-Jawzi {147]). This is
also why Al-Qurtubi [80] rejected the claim. Al-Nahhas [71] discussed several
interpretations of the verses in question and rejected the claim.

F) Conclusion:

The three verses together say to Muslims,

If you made a promise of a share in your inheritance to someone
who is not a relative of yours, it is to be honored as a bequest
within the allowed limits, and your regular heirs get the shares
mandated to them by the inheritance rules of Islam from the
remainder of the estate.

11. Sacred month (5:2)

This claim, together with the claim about verse 2:217, was refuted in §6.2.1
based on the distinction between waging war and self-defense.

12. Adjudication for non-Muslims (5:42)

This claim pertains to whether the Prophet (PBUH) may arbitrate between
non-Muslims when they ask him to do so.

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

A) The claim:

The verse claimed abrogated is,

Gb GE W285 15 ate bel gi as ES U ALK OG}
€ Sent) CF ail S| bial geal eS SS by GE .a,2b5
[2 : sss]
[5:42] If they come to you [for arbitration], then judge between
them or decline. If you decline, they will not harm you at all, and

if you judge then judge between them with equity. God loves the
equitable.

and the verse claimed to abrogate it is,

Byisks SN RSS ehalsal a JY; Bi Isle Wi E81 ob p

[24:35] ... Je) ais) Jail Ls yas SE

[5:49] And judge between them with what God has revealed, and

do not follow their fancies and be careful that they do not seduce you
away from some of what God has revealed to you ...

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The argument for abrogation in this claim is that verse 5:42 gives the
Prophet (PBUH) two choices but verse 5:49 gives him only one.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

Verse 5:49 elaborates on the first choice: deciding to arbitrate. It simply
tells the Prophet (PBUH) that if he chooses to arbitrate, he must do so by the
laws of God which He revealed to him, not by the desires of the litigants.
That is the equity mentioned in verse 5:42. Thus, the latter verse confirms,
rather than abrogates the former one. Waliyullah [203] also concludes that
the choice given to the Prophet (PBUH) remains in place; either rule between
them according to the laws of God or let them seek arbitration from their own
leaders.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

Narrations attributed to Ibn Abbas (RA) and Al-Suddi stated that verse 5:42
gave the Prophet (PBUH) two options, one of which was abrogated by verse 5:49.
Other narrations attributed to Al-Nakhei and Al-Shaabi, however, stated that
verse 5:49 elaborated the manner of judgment if the Prophet (PBUH) chose the
first option, to accept the request for adjudication (Ibn Al-Jawzi [147]).

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Among the pro-abrogation scholars who rejected the claim of abrogation
of 5:42 were Al-Tabari [107] who surveyed various opinions before concluding
that the verse is not abrogated, Ibn Al-Jawzi [147], Makki [184], Waliyullah
[203] and Al-Zurqani [128].

F) Conclusion:

The following reconciliation statement can easily be made, showing that
the two verses together say the following to the Prophet (PBUH),

Non-Muslims may come to you to arbitrate between them in
their disputes. You may accept and arbitrate, or you may
decline. If you decline, don't fret; they cannot harm you. If you
do accept, then you must apply God's laws which He revealed
to you, and not their laws or desires no matter how tempted
you are to do so. It is the only way to be equitable in your
arbitration.

13. Witnesses to a will (5:106)

This claim pertains to witnesses testifying to consummate events, such as
a verbal will given by a dying Muslim. Can some of the witnesses be non-
Muslim?

A) The claim:

The verse claimed abrogated is

Ge byl enact yas 5 eas BUGS LET Sal el YD
[1:55] € .. ASAE Ga GIST gl ete dae 8 ott th oil

(5:106] O you who have believed, the testimony between you when
death has approached one of you, at the time of stating a will, is two
of fairness among you, or two from other than you ...

and the verse claimed abrogating it is
Ihab Syst Sb SU SI Syae ESE Sule t GA 8 b
[6 : SULIT ... ay 8 SUB | pials aeake J Jak 555

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

[65:2] Thereupon, when they (divorced wives) have reached their
term (grace period), then hold them with virtue or leave them with
virtue. And call to witness two of fairness among you, and establish
testimony for God ...

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The argument for abrogation is that verse 5:106 allows non-Muslims to be
witnesses while verse 65:2 does not.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

This alleged conflict argument is flawed for two reasons:

e Verse 5:106 is about witnessing a will, while verse 65:2 is about witness-
ing a finalization, or rescindment, of a divorce. These are two different
matters, so each may have its own rules. We know, for instance, that the
number of required witnesses to an adultery is four and not two. These
are not the same situations, so the abrogation claim here simply violates
the Sameness validation rule.

e At death time, which can happen to a Muslim in a foreign land, the
Muslim testator may not be able to call to witness fellow Muslims in time,
while divorce proceedings do not have that kind of urgency. Therefore,
there are circumstances where verse 5:106 is needed, lest a restriction
on witnesses should result in intended heirs not getting bequests the
decedent wanted to give them for lack of witnesses (Al-Arid [20]). Ibn
Kathir [163] asserts that the allowance for non-Muslim witnesses in verse
5:106 applies only to a death situation while traveling.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

A narration attributed to Zaid ibn Aslam stated the abrogation and found
support from Abu-Hanifa. On the other hand, Ibn Abbas (RA), Ibn Jubair,
and Ibn Hanbal maintained that there is no abrogation (Ibn Al-Jawzi [147]).

In his refutation of the claim, Ibn Sallam [171], argues that Chapter 5
of the Quran (where the verse claimed abrogated belongs) is one of the last
chapters to be revealed, implying that it has no abrogated verses. He cites
a number of opinions supporting this view. This is a rare case of invoking the
Chronology validation rule to refute a claim. Al-Nahhas [71] also brings up
this point about Chapter 5 in general.

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Among the pro-abrogation scholars who did not approve the claim of ab-
rogation of verse 5:106 were Ibn Sallam [171], Ibn Al-Jawzi [147], Al-Tabari

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

[107] who discussed verse 5:16 in detail without mentioning abrogation in spite
of mentioning abrogation in discussing many other verses, Al-Nahhas [71],
Makki [184] who details the opinions against abrogation, Ibn Kathir [163],
Al-Shawkani [96], Al-Arid [20], and Zeid [206].

F) Conclusion:

We can make this reconciliation statement which easily combines the two
verses,

When a Muslim is about to die and wants to state his will,
there should be two fellow upstanding Muslims witnessing his
will. If such is not available, then two other witnesses should
be summoned. As for divorce between husband and wife, it
must be two upstanding Muslims who witness that.

14. Steadfastness in battle (8:65)

See §5.2.

15. Fighting obligation (9:41)

This claim pertains to the question of who must join the fight at the time of
war.

A) The claim:

The verse claimed abrogated is,

oZahS sl fonds bee ebily algal Lp daley Veity Glis 152i!
[10 : Ayal] € Gyches HS 3) cea) BS
[9:41] Mobilize, light and heavy, and strive with your riches and

your persons in the cause of God. That is better for you, if you would
know.

Several verses were claimed to abrogate it,

s
q- 2G

ABUb adhe 853 B he 5B Vy BE jad OL OF Ye }
[N66 degll€ y5 558 gla) a g2l) yas 15] 5055 19505 op Sll 3 Iya

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

[9:122] And ought not the believers mobilize all at once. For there
should separate from every division of them a group [remaining] to
obtain understanding in the religion and warn their people when they
return to them so that they may be cautious.

and
teal eGee HN EES SVE)
IW: call] € ...
[48:17] There is no awkwardness [for remaining behind] on the
blind nor the lame nor the ill ...
and

Spits S38 Y Goal EG Ayal EG sea & aI)
ae Gane as 34-5 al Loud eS
ia dle 2) del Yell Loa ai G1 gall eG

z

[ac-ay : PERT cis Henini
[9:91-92] There is no awkwardness upon the weak, nor upon the ill,
nor upon those who do not find anything to spend, if they are sincere
to God and His Messenger, and no blame upon the benevolent; God is
much Forgiving and Merciful e Nor upon those who, when they come
to you to carry them with you, you tell them you don't have anything
to carry them on, so they turn back with their eyes tearing up sad
that they do not have anything to spend [for the war effort].

Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] and Al-Andalusi [19] added as an abrogated verse,

CA Wail fold (yal She dd LET sual tal >
[V\ : slLosSt]

[4:71] O you who have believed, take your precaution and [either]
go forth in companies or go forth all together.

and wrote that it was abrogated by verse 9:122. Ibn Al-Jawzi attributed this
claim to a narration from Ibn Abbas (RA). Another claim where the abrogating
verse is also 9:122 will be discussed in §8.1.

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The main argument for abrogation in this claim is that verses 9:41 and
4:71 excuse no one from battle duty, while all the verses claimed to abrogate
them exempt some categories of people.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

Exemption is not abrogation. It is elaboration. All the above verses in the
claim are pieces of the same ruling; a requirement of fighting and exemptions
from the requirement. Abrogation means cancellation. None of the above
verses cancel any other.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] reported a narration attributed to Ibn Abbas (Ra) quot-
ing him saying that verse 9:41 was abrogated by verse 9:122, a narration that
was rated weak in authenticity, likely because it comes through Al-Khorasani
who the narration scholars concluded never met Ibn Abbas (RA). Ibn Al-Jawzi
also mentioned another narration attributed to Al-Suddi saying that the verse
was abrogated by verse 9:91.

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Among the pro-abrogation scholars who did not approve the claim of ab-
rogation of 9:41 were Al-Qurtubi [80], Ibn Al-Jawzi [147], Shula [199], Al-
Shawkani [96], Waliyullah [203], Al-Arid [20] and Zeid [206].

F) Conclusion:

In summary, we can make this reconciliation statement that collects to-
gether all the pieces of this ruling expressed in the above verses,

When the call to arms is sounded, those of you qualified to
join the battle must join it. Exempted are people who are
handicapped, who are ill, or who could not be provided with
war gear. Also, some of you should stay behind to prepare the
other citizens for wartime conditions.

16. Fornicator marriage (24:3)

This claim pertains to whom fornicators may marry.
A) The claim:

The verse claimed abrogated is,

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

5 has 3) 5 VGA VA SNg SBS 5 235 VI ASS Y ISN
vs lll € Gebel Je BUS 6555
[24:3] The fornicating man does not marry but a fornicating or
a polytheist woman, and the fornicating woman - none marries her

but a fornicating or a polytheist man, and that has been forbidden to
the believers.

and the verse claimed to have abrogated it is

|p 5s O) Eade] peace Se Coded re) GN Laces
[ves ppl] € hE Quel MUNG alead So Al gees 215s
[24:32] And have the unmarried among you marry, and the righ-
teous among your bondmen and your bondmaids. If they should be

poor, God will enrich them from His bounty, and God is Capacious
and All-Knowing.

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The most commonly cited argument for abrogation here is that verse 24:3
prohibits the believers from marrying fornicators while verse 24:32 advocates
marrying any of a number of categories without explicitly excluding fornica-
tors. Another possible conflict is more specific; the categories include bond-
maids who may be considered fornicators by some.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

If the conflict is based on verse 24:32 advocating marriage without ex-
cluding fornicators, the reconciliation is immediate. The call for marriage is
general, so it does not overrule excluding some for special reasons such as for-
nication. Ibn Al-Arabi [144] makes this point forcefully, wondering how could
anyone conceive of a general abrogating a special? To support this point,
Al-Ghali [43] gives an example that the verse does not explicitly exclude mar-
rying a sibling either, but that does not abrogate the prohibition of marrying
a sibling.

This leaves us with only the other possible conflict related to bondmaids
being fornicators. To reconcile this conflict, we note that bondmaids are not
fornicators since they are not free to abstain. God makes it clear in the very
next verse how He views those who are coerced,

SI S58 \ Ais) CF G51 Ol fe nts A 2 YG

DY: SID hae 5 kb Seal] 255 Se dhl SG Seb A 35 MN

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

[24:33] ... And do not coerce your girls into prostitution if they
desire chastity; [you do that] to seek the temporary interests of the
worldly life. And whoever coerces them, then verily, God is [to the
girls], after their coercion, much Forgiving and Merciful.

Therefore, coerced fornication is forgiven by God, while willful fornication is
a sin for which God has mandated a legal penalty in verse 24:2 then restricted
the marriage of its offenders in verse 24:3 next. Verse 24:32 does not, therefore,
include a category of punishable fornicators so it does not conflict with verse
24:3.

A second argument is based on Al-Tabari's interpretation of verse 24:3
which is claimed to be abrogated. Al-Tabari [107] highlights an interpretation
that the verse is specifically about prostitutes, not fornicators more generally.
He provided several pages of evidence to support this interpretation. This
would reconcile the two verses of this abrogation claim since the second verse
is patently not about prostitutes. Zeid [206] adopts this argument as he refutes
the abrogation claim.

A third argument advocated by Ibn Kathir [163] views verse 24:3 not
as a ruling, but as a statement observing that fornicators get together with
other fornicators. This is a legitimate linguistic reading of the wording of the
verse, and if the verse is stating an observation, there is nothing to abrogate.
Al-Zamakhshari [124] also chooses this interpretation. Al-Arid [20] uses this
argument as he refutes the claim, and Waliyullah [203] uses a similar argument.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

The circumstances of revelation for verse 24:3 are described in a narration
reported!' by Al-Nasai [73] and Abu-Dawoud [3], where the Prophet (PBUH)
forbade a Muslim man from marrying a prostitute. The man was Marthad
Al-Ghanawi. He wanted to marry a prostitute named Anaq. This is obviously
different from marrying a bondmaid which is what verse 24:32 addresses, and
it supports the above reconciliation argument based on Al-Tabari's interpre-
tation.

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Among the pro-abrogation scholars who did not approve the claim of ab-
rogation of verse 24:3 were Ibn Al-Arabi [144] who raised doubts about many
interpretations of the verses of this claim, Al-Zamakhshari [124], Waliyullah
(203], Al-Arid [20] and Zeid [206].

13The authenticity level of the narration is "sound" (g+>) which is not as high as narra-
tions considered authentic.

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

F) Conclusion:

The following reconciliation statement is one way to summarize key parts
of both verses and show that they are not incompatible,

A Muslim society should always try to get unmarried Muslims
married. That said, fornicators are not allowed to marry chaste
people. Bondmaids are not fornicators since they are not free
to abstain.

17. Marriage prohibition (33:52)

This claim pertains to the question of whether the Prophet (PBUH) could marry
again.

A) The claim:
The verse claimed abrogated is

feces So chal os Ge IRS Ig as ADI a JZ Y

[ot Slo ... is 2§ ie GA 3
[33:52] Unlawful to you after that are all women, or to substitute

them for any wives even if you admired their beauty, except your
bondmaids ...

and the verse claimed to have abrogated it is

i

EST 5 385, 8 ol ST GN Sig a es BY ell le s.
ieee ee ae aul 216) Ee &
SD ee a ereee ae

oho vll €.. Siehl oS yo DEBE BSS I EH

[33:50] O Prophet, We have made lawful to you your [current]
wives to whom you have paid their dowries and your bondmaids from
what God has extended to you and the daughters of your paternal
uncle and the daughters of your paternal aunts and the daughters of
your maternal uncle and the daughters of your maternal aunts who
emigrated with you and a believing woman if she gives herself to
the Prophet [and] if the Prophet wishes to marry her, only for you,
excluding the [other] believers ...

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The point of the claim is that verse 33:50 allows the Prophet (PBUH) to
marry again while verse 33:52 disallows him from doing that.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

First, we point out that the verse claimed abrogating is listed in the
Quranic script before the verse claimed abrogated by it. This is the second
famous abrogation claim where this chronology problem is manifest; the other
one is the widows-residence claim (§4.1). It is notable that Waliyullah, a pro-
abrogation scholar who approved only five abrogation claims, would approve
both of the famous claims that have a chronology issue.

Al-Tabari [107] states that there is no proof regarding the order of revela-
tion of the two verses. Zeid [206] was more blunt about it; he drew attention
to the phrase "after that - 4 .." in verse 33:52 then asserted that "it doesn't
fit for that to be said in the verse, then it is said that [the verse] was abrogated
by two verses that were revealed earlier" (\3\ Ja eo c4YI cb da Sle ol eo Y

Jap) Blade cele gah yp),

What do the claimants of abrogation say about this problem? Some, such
as Al-Zurqani [128], defended all claims with a chronology problem by saying
that what matters is the order of revelation of verses, not the order of their
listing in the Quranic script. While that is true, neither he nor any other
scholar has offered an authentic proof of the order of revelation. Waliyullah
[203] acknowledged the chronology issue, but offered no explanation other than
saying it is possible. Others have not even acknowledged it.

When the two verses are read in the order of the Quranic script, the claim is
easily refuted as follows. Verse 33:52 is a continuation of verse 33:50, evidenced
by the phrase "after that - 42 ." that Zeid referred to. This is how Ibn Al-
Arabi [144] refuted this claim. Let us look at what the two verses say.

Verse 33:50 tells the Prophet that he can marry again, from the list that the

verse enumerates, if he wants. After that, verse 33:52 tells him
[or : he] € "a cer Be AURA EO JF Y - "Unlawful to you |after that
are [all] women ...' This means that, after the Prophet (PBUH) has made his

decision whether and whom to marry, he cannot marry anymore. No conflict.
It was a one-time allowance.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

A narration is attributed to Aisha (RA) in which she said that the Prophet

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

(PBUH) did not die until he was allowed to marry.'4 Most scholars understood
that to mean that verse 33:52 was abrogated, but her words could simply have
been referring to verse 33:50, i.e., the Prophet (PBUH) was given the privilege
of marrying other women. Ibn Al-Arabi [144] does not take that narration as
evidence of abrogation since it is a singles narration, and Al-Arid [20] agrees
with him.

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Among the pro-abrogation scholars who rejected the claim of abrogation
of 33:52 were Al-Tabari [107], Ibn Al-Arabi [144], Al-Arid [20] and Zeid [206].

F) Conclusion:

To summarize, we can make the following reconciliation statement and
show that verses 33:50-52 tell the Prophet (PBUH) this:

As a one-time allowance, the Prophet (PBUH) may marry again
from the stated categories in verse 33:50. After that, he cannot
marry anyone else.

18. Private consultation (58:12)

See §5.1.

19. Compensating husbands (60:11)

This is arguably the weakest of Al-Suyuti's 20 claims. It pertains to compen-
sating Muslim husbands whose wives reverted to polytheism and left them.
The background of this claim is that verse 60:10 instructs Muslims regarding
women who migrated from Mecca to Medina that they were to be queried
in order to verify that they were believers. Once found to be believers, these
migrating women were not to be returned to their polytheist husbands back in
Mecca as Islam has annulled their marriage. A Muslim cannot marry a poly-
theist or remain married to one. Here is verse 60:10,

LI Zagoda oleate SH ete IS) Val spall Gal ig
Je DVS I ses Gooey Be SG Zeloy ei

14The authenticity of this narration has been rated "soundly authentic" (qe o>) by

Al-Tirmizi [113], and in one version of the manuscript "sound" (.,.~). Both ratings are not
as high as the authentic level (ee) for narrations.

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

Stas perigee 15 3g Ggld 2 os
na flrs 31555) pa wy Sand Sy Shi bt 588s os
eer ie

[60:10] O you who have believed, when the believing women come
to you emigrating (from Mecca), test them. God knows better their
faith. And if you know them to be believers, then do not return them
to the disbelievers; they are not lawful [wives] for them, nor are they
lawful [husbands] for them. But give the disbelievers what they have
spent. And it is no violation upon you if you marry them when you
have given them their dowries. And do not hold on to marriage bonds
with disbelieving women, but ask for what you have spent and let
them ask for what they have spent. That is the judgment of God; He
judges between you. And God is much Knowledgeable, very Wise.

A) The claim:

The following verse,
EBS GIN SE HSS , shee aba

(60:11] And if you lost anything [you spent] on your wives to the
disbelievers and you subsequently obtain [some money], then give
those whose wives have gone the equivalent of what they had spent

was claimed to be abrogated, but there is no agreement about what abrogated
it. In his list, Al'Suyuti [100] mentions the sword verse (verse 9:5) as one
possibility, with the other possibility being verse 8:41,

Sl eal S2EN5 Lk hh BE ecoh Ss ob8 2 Sh 1 they
[oy JM Co. Jarl Not Seal ae

[8:41] And know that whatever you gain lof war booty] - then
verily, for God is one-fifth of it and for the Messenger and for the near
relative, the orphans, the destitute, and the transient ...

Al-Nahhas [71] states that most scholars support this claim and he men-
tions different interpretations, but Zeid [206] notes that Al-Nahhas did not

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

identify the abrogated ruling, nor the abrogating verse, nor the specifics of
the conflict. Al-Khazraji [63] attributed this claim to Ibn Salama and Ibn Al-
Arabi, but with no agreement on an abrogating verse.

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The point of this particular claim was not spelled out. Given the wording
of the two verses, it is likely that the perceived conflict is that compensating
husbands, as mandated in verse 60:11, was not one of the five venues listed in
verse 8:41. However, there is an assortment of opinions in the literature about
what abrogated what, and Zeid {206] laments "the confusion" (~\,2!) about
what ruling was abrogated and what abrogated it.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

There are two points to be made here,

1. If the perceived conflict between the two verses is indeed that compensating
husbands, as mandated in verse 60:11, is not one of the five venues listed in
verse 8:41 for spending the booty, the reconciliation is straightforward. Verse
8:41 mandates that a share of the war booty is for God (Ibn Ashur [153}).
It is God who dictated compensating husbands in verse 60:11, therefore that
compensation can come from the portion of the war booty that He mandated
to be His. There is no conflict. Al-Arid [20] adopted this argument as he
refuted the abrogation claim.

What makes this perceived conflict even more shaky is that verse 60:11
did not specify that the compensation for husbands should come from the war
booty. Al-Tabari [107] discusses all opinions in this matter and concludes that
God "did not specify giving [the compensation] to them from some money
rather than other money". Al-Tabari did not even mention abrogation in his
6-page commentary on the verse.

2. As we mentioned, the above conflict is not mentioned by all claimants of
abrogation, nor did they specify the elements of conflict that would call for
their claim of abrogation. Therefore, it is not clear what needs to be reconciled
in those cases, and Zeid [206] just dismisses the claim for lack of the basics
needed for claiming abrogation.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

Al-Khazraji [63] began his discussion of the claim by telling the circum-
stance of the revelation of verse 60:11. A Muslim convert wife in Medina,
Umm Al-Hakam bint Abi-Sufyan, reverted to polytheism and fled to Mecca.
Her husband was devastated by it. The Prophet (PBUH) gave him from the
battle booty equal to the dowry he had paid. This was consistent with what
the verse instructed.

6. OTHER FAMOUS CLAIMS 6.3. AL-SUYUTI'S TWENTY

Al-Khazraji attributed the claim to Ibn Salama and Ibn Al-Arabi, but
the former claimed that the abrogating verse was the "sword verse" and the
latter claimed the abrogating was the end of the Hudaybia treaty which the
polytheists breached.

There was another interpretation of verse 60:11 though. Some thought
it meant paying the polytheist ex-husbands. The reason they thought that
was because verse 60:10 tells Muslim men that they can marry the migrating
women if they would pay them dowry (Ibn Salama {170]) and that the poly-
theist husbands may ask for their dowry back. This may explain why these
scholars opined that the "sword verse" abrogated 60:11. Ibn Al-Arabi [144]
opined that the polytheist breach of the Hudaybia treaty is what abrogated
60:11.

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Al-Qurtubi [80] quoted Ibn Abbas (RA) who advised that husbands should
be compensated from the war booty before it is divided into fifths.

Al-Arid [20] rejected this claim based on chronology, among other reasons.
He observed that verse 60:11 was revealed after the treaty at Al-Hudaybia,
which in turn occurred after the revelation of verse 8:41. Nada [190] agreed.

Zeid {206] dismissed the claim as missing the basics of an abrogation claim.
F) Conclusion:

It is quite straightforward to reconcile the two verses,

If the Muslim convert wife of a Muslim man reverts to polythe-
ism and leaves him, the husband is to be paid back the dowry
he paid her from the available sources, including spoils of war.

20. Night prayer (73:1-4)

See §5.3.

ua")
As we have seen, some famous claims have less merit than others. They
warrant discussion because of their frequent mention in the literature. We

move now to claims that do not have the same level of recognition but still
warrant some discussion.

Chapter 7

Less Famous Claims

In this chapter, we present a number of abrogation claims that are less fre-
quently mentioned in the literature but still have an element of apparent con-
flict. Some of these claims warrant a discussion to show that there is no real
conflict, while others can be summarily dismissed for simple reasons.

The subject matter of the verses in these claims touches on important ideo-
logical questions like the fate of non-Muslims and what the forgivable sins are,
and on practical questions like which foods are allowed and what the penalties
for killing are under different scenarios. Because these are impactful issues,
whether the verses in question are abrogated has significant life consequences.

7.1 Allowed Food (2:173, 5:3, 6:121, 16:115)

This claim addresses the meats that Muslims are allowed to eat. One verse
(5:5) that asserts a seemingly broad allowance is claimed to have abrogated
four verses that forbid certain meats.

A) The claim:

Ibn Salama [170] and others reported that the verse,

fo sas] € .. 22a) fo GUSHNIS | Ssll FBG.
[5:5] ... and the food of those who were given the Scripture is
lawful for you ...

abrogated the prohibition in

7. Less FAMous CLAIMS 7.1. ALLOWED Foon (2:173, 5:3, 6:121, 16:115)

[Vy : pls)... Zonal ly athe gil 1 SU TG 11S YG
[6:121] And do not eat of that upon which the name of God has
not been mentioned, for verily, it is deviance ...

Zeid {206] reported that other, similarly worded verses were also claimed ab-

rogated by verse 5:5. These include

(dil fab alts ppb cs py ch cee 5]
[wr :3 al]
[2:173] Verily, what He has forbidden on you are dead (unslaugh-
tered) animals, blood, meat of the swine, and what was dedicated to
other than God ...

and
on 4; BN GS Jol eg ef aby pally cl ee Cage
[y : 35]
[5:3] Forbidden on you are dead (unslaughtered) animals, blood,
meat of the swine, and what was dedicated to other than God ...
and

Gnd al fa) Jol eg fbi cs pitly Schl eats ge hp
[Wo: joel]

[16:115] Verily, what He has forbidden on you are dead (unslaugh-
tered) animals, blood, meat of the swine, and what was dedicated to
other than God ...

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The claimants of abrogation, as well as other scholars who discussed the

claim, identified the perceived conflict as verse 5:5 allowing Muslims to eat

24 the food of the people of the Scripture which may include meat that was not
dedicated to God at the time of slaughter, whereas such meat was forbidden

by verse 6:121.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

There are two related reconciliation arguments for this abrogation claim,

1. Al-Tabari [107] argues that the prohibition in verse 6:121 is restricted to
slaughtered animals that were dedicated to false gods (Ciel, 4 "tal lL), and

7. Less FAMous CLAIMS 7.1. ALLOWED Foon (2:173, 5:3, 6:121, 16:115)

that slaughtered animals by people of the Scripture are separate from that
since those people worship God, whether they mention His name at the time
of slaughter or not. Thus, the argument here is based on interpreting verse
6:121 to be limited in scope.

2. The second argument does not limit the scope of verse 6:121, but considers
that verse 5:5 is making an exception from the generality of verse 6:121 (Zeid
[206]). This means that the meat that was not dedicated to God at the time
of slaughter is generally forbidden to Muslims, with an exception when the
slaughter is done by people of the Scripture. Exception is not abrogation.
Meat that was improperly slaughtered by other than people of the Scripture
remains forbidden per verse 6:121, hence it is not abrogated.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

Al-Tabari [107] reports a narration by Ikrima and Al-Basri asserting the
'naskh' of verse 6:121 by verse 5:5. However, their intended meaning of naskh
was not abrogation as evidenced by their words ", July « ax" (did naskh,
and made an exception). An exception is not abrogation, as the Elaboration
validation rule makes clear. Zeid [206] commented in a footnote that this was
what the narrators meant when they mentioned the word naskh.

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Al-Suyuti [100] did not include any of these abrogation claims in his list of
20 approved claims. Zeid [206] rejected the claims of abrogation for all four
verses and quoted Al-Tabari [107|'s argument that rejects the abrogation claim
of verse 6:121. Al-Nahhas [71] discussed and rejected the claim of abrogation
of verse 6:121, and did not include the other verses among the abrogation
claims he addressed.

Other scholars rejected some of the abrogation claims. Ibn Salama [170] did
not include verse 5:3 as abrogated. Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] discussed the claims
that verse 5:5 abrogated the prohibition of improperly slaughtered animals
without listing all the relevant verses, then rejected them. Al-Baghdadi [24]
briefly discussed the abrogation of verse 6:121 raising doubts about the claim.

F) Conclusion:

The following reconciliation statement can be made based on the above
discussion,

Slaughtering an animal without invoking God's name is con-
sidered by Muslims to be improper slaughter, except if it was
done by people of the Scripture.

7. Less FAMOUS CLAIMS 7.2. FORBIDDEN Foops (6:145)

7.2 Forbidden Foods (6:145)

In the previous section, it was claimed that certain food that was forbidden to
Muslims became allowed. In this section, the claim is that certain food that
was allowed to Muslims became forbidden.

A) The claim:

Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] reported that

a 2 ay

SyBog OI, aks ol Je 54 desl g del Yb
4 BN 6S) Jol ss I FS, Bs fh hE ds us i ee ist
[\to: pls VI]

(6:145] Say, "I do not find within what was revealed to me [any-
thing] forbidden to one who would eat it unless it be (unslaughtered)
dead animal, blood spilled out, or the flesh of swine - for verily, it is
filth - or it be [that slaughtered in] deviance, immolated to other than
God" ...

was abrogated by

eae aoa Gayl fal als bb fly Sl ee ore

Be ah oy SS YY A BT ee Pon ee ep Alres ae
presaslll € dl

[5:3] Forbidden on you are (unslaughtered) dead animals, blood,
meat of the swine, and what was dedicated to other than God, and
the suffocating, pounded, crashing-down, and gored [animal], and
what the canine ate [from] - except what you have seared - and [also
prohibited is] what was slaughtered on the altar ...

He did not mention who made the claim. Al-Nahhas [71] also includes verse
6:145 among the abrogation claims, but what is claimed to abrogate it is
Prophetic traditions, and he rejects that claim. Al-Hamzani [49] mentioned
the same claim that Al-Nahhas discussed as a brief example in the abrogation
claims he listed.

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The apparent conflict is that verse 6:145 limits what Muslims are forbidden
to consume to a specific list, while verse 5:3 seems to list other items that are
also forbidden.

7. Less FAMOUS CLAIMS 7.2. FORBIDDEN Foops (6:145)

C) Reconciliation arguments:

If the above conflict is the basis for claiming abrogation, it is easy to refute.
The new items that are listed as prohibited in verse 5:3 ("the suffocating,
pounded, crashing-down, and gored [animal], and what the canine ate [from]")
are subcategories of unslaughtered dead animals that are already prohibited
by verse 6:145 (Ibn Al-Jawzi [147]). Also, "what was slaughtered on the altar"
in verse 5:3 is a subcategory of what was "immolated to other than God" in

verse 6:145 (Zeid [206]). There is no conflict.

A second argument is that verse 6:145 amounts to a statement of fact
("I do not find within what was revealed to me ...") which cannot be abrogated,
per the the Facts validation rule. Makki [184] rejected the abrogation claim
based on this argument.

The reconciliation of the other view that Prophetic tradition abrogated
verse 6:145 is also easy. As Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] was adamant about, singles
reports of Prophetic tradition cannot possibly abrogate the Quran which is
certain in sourcing (even for those who accept that Prophetic narrations may
abrogate Quranic verses).

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] reported that Ibn Abbas (RA) saw no problem with eating
different meats and referred to the verse claimed abrogated here as the basis,
notwithstanding conflicting narrations that prohibited some of these meats.
Ibn Al-Jawzi also reported that Mujahid and Tawoos both understood verse
6:145 to refer to the foods the Arabs of the pre-Islamic era used to eat.

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Ibn Al-Barezi [146], among many pro-abrogation scholars, did not include
this claim in his extensive list of abrogation claims. Shula [199] refuted
this claim arguing that it was a partial prohibition at first in Mecca then
amended later in Medina. Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] argued likewise and mentioned
that Ibn Abbas (RA) followed the allowances of verse 6:145.

Zeid [206] rejected the claim based on the first reconciliation argument we
presented, and rejected that verse 6:145 was abrogated by Prophetic tradition
based on disapproval of this notion in principle. He related the claim to the
previous claims in §7.1 that he also rejected, which involve verse 5:5.

F) Conclusion:

The following reconciliation statement can be made to address the claims
of abrogation, in particular those about Prophetic tradition abrogating verse
6:145.

7. Less FAMOUS CLAIMS 7.3. UNFORGIVABLE SINS (2:81, 4:18)

The only foods forbidden to Muslims are the ones listed in
verses of the Quran as forbidden.

7.3 Unforgivable Sins (2:81, 4:18)

A) The claim:

This claim pertains to sins that may not be forgiven. The verses claimed
abrogated are,

SU

J a Seal AL ee web eels i}
[A : 58d GANS lQd

[2:81] Nay! Whoever earns a misdeed and his sin surrounded him
- then those are the inmates of the Fire; they therein are lasting.

and

ey scl pas pas VS) 2 clit) Fone tele 1558 2435 >
Wise ie ag wie ad,\ 5S aby C Seo aa GN eS 3 3) dG
DA: Lidl { KY
[4:18] And repentance is not for those who commit misdeeds, until
when death approaches one of them he says, "I repent now", nor for

those who die disbelieving. Those We have readied for them a painful
torment.

and the verse claimed to abrogate them is

8 305 ES od GUS yb Ua Fads ap 5d ST aks Y hl 3) >
[OAs slacll] f be 3] cfs! 085 ail,

[4:48] Verily, God does not forgive to be associated with [in wor-
ship], but He forgives what is beneath that for whom He wills. And he
who associates others with God [in worship] has certainly fabricated
a tremendous sin.

Shula [199], presented arguments for and against this claim but did not weigh
in on either argument. Makki [184] discussed the claim for verse 4:18, citing
arguments for and against. Ibn Salama [170] said that 4:18 was abrogated
regarding the polytheists but remained unabrogated for people of faith.

7. Less FAMOUS CLAIMS 7.3. UNFORGIVABLE SINS (2:81, 4:18)

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The apparent conflict is that verses 2:81 and 4:18 seem to indicate that
habitual sinners are destined to Hellfire, while verse 4:48 leaves the door open
for them as long as they did not associate others with God in worship.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

The most obvious refutation of the abrogation claims here is that both
verses that are claimed abrogated are statements of fact, thus cannot be ab-
rogated per the Facts validation rule as Zeid [206] mentions briefly. Notwith-
standing this observation, arguments in the literature try to address the ap-
parent conflict.

We start with a reconciliation argument that applies to both verses that
were claimed abrogated. The phrase "and his sin surrounded him" in verse 2:81
clearly refers to an unrepentant, repeat sinner. This is consistent with what
verse 4:18 refers to, since the verse just before it delimits its scope,

cok ye Oh SB Dee 2,2 lias Gill si fe SAI HL >
IW: Lud f LSS USE dil OG agalé a Né 2h 5 Del, ti

[4:17] Repentance, accepted by God, is for those who commit bad
acts out of ignorance and then repent soon after. Those - God accepts
their repentance. God is All-Knowing and Wise.

thus the next verse, 4:18 makes a contrast with those who do not repent soon
after, but continue in their sins until the time of death. Zeid [206] makes the
same observation.

Given this interpretation, the two verses can be reconciled with verse 4:48
which is claimed to abrogate them. We note that verse 4:48 says "God does
not forgive to be associated with [in worship], but He forgives what is beneath
that |for whom He wills". Consequently, He may exclude repeat sinners from
that forgiveness.

A second argument was offered by Al-Shawkani [96] and applies to the
first verse that was claimed abrogated. He wrote that verse 2:81 is a contin-
uation of the verse before it, a response to what some non-Muslims claimed —
that they would not stay but a few days in Hellfire,

sh el seed gm 9)

[Av saya € Opes Vs a Je Gls of tage a Ge

[2:80] And they say, "The Fire will not touch us, oe for a few
days." Say, "Did you hold [such] a pact with God? For God will never

7. Less FAMOUS CLAIMS 7.3. UNFORGIVABLE SINS (2:81, 4:18)

back out of His pact. Or do you say about God what you do not
know?"

countering their statement by the stern "Nay! Whoever earns a misdeed and
his sin surrounded him - then those are the inmates of the Fire; they therein are
lasting." of verse 2:81. Zeid [206] also made this argument as he rejected the
claim.

The fact that verse 2:81 opens with the Arabic word ae (Nay!) reinforces
this argument. Linguistically, this word negates a negation. In this case, what
is negated is the statement in the previous verse: "The Fire will not touch us,
except for a few days".

A third argument also applies to the first verse, 2:81. Ibn Al-Jawzi [147]
rejected this claim based on a reconciliation argument that he attributed to
the majority of exegetes. He said that they interpreted the sin referred to in
2:81 as associating others with God in worship. That would be consistent with
verse 4:48 rather than conflicting with it.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

Ibn Kathir [163] wrote that Al-Suddi and Al-Basri opined that the misdeed
referenced in 2:81 is of the major sins.

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Zeid [206] rejected both claims, reconciling the verses as we discussed in
Step C. The claims are not widely mentioned by pro-abrogation scholars.
Some exegetes who discussed verse 2:81 interpreted the sin mentioned in it to
be the association of others with God in worship (Ibn Al-Jawzi [147]). For
example, Ibn Kathir [163] cites prominent early Muslims for this interpretation
which reconciles the verse with verse 4:48 that is claimed to abrogate it (third
reconciliation argument in Step C).

F) Conclusion:

The following reconciliation statement can be made and it shows that the
three verses in this claim, taken together, mean the following,

God accepts the repentance of a sinner who regrets and asks
Him for forgiveness. God will not forgive one who associates
others with Him in worship, nor a defiant sinner.

To reiterate, the abrogation claim involving these three verses should not
have been made in the first place since the verses are all statements of fact,
thus not subject to abrogation per the Facts validation rule. The next claim,
whose subject is somewhat related to this claim, has the same issue.

7. Less FAMOUS CLAIMS 7.4. FATE OF NON-MUSLIMS (2:62, 5:69)

7.4 Fate of Non-Muslims (2:62, 5:69)

A) The claim:

The verse,

pally ily Gal 55 GggLAlly G5LAHN5 1 5U6 Gysllg LT Gall 5) p

€ Gg5H by pgtle BS Vy ods he 0 Jel dls joss 3

[V6 23 45]

[2:62] Verily, those who have believed, those who followed Ju-

daism, the Christians, and the Sabeans - who believed in God and the

Final Day and did righteousness - for them is their reward with their
Lord and no fear shall be upon them nor shall they grieve.

was claimed abrogated by

{ eplhly 2555 585 Ae de FR S15 a eSLM BE aS 35
[Ao: Ol pase J
[3:85] And whoever seeks other than Islam as religion - then it will
not be accepted from him, and he, in the Hereafter, is among the
losers.

The claim is supported by Al-Andalusi [19] and Ibn Salama [170]. Al-Tabari
[107] interpreted a narration by Ibn Abbas (RA) as supporting this claim, too.
There is a similarly worded verse (5:69) to the verse that was claimed abro-
gated (2:62), and we will address it in Step D below.

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The perceived conflict between these two verses is that verse 2:62 declares
that certain followers of other religions have nothing to worry about while
verse 3:85 declares that followers of religions other than Islam will be among
the losers on the Day of Judgment.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

Notwithstanding the apparent conflict which we will reconcile shortly, this
abrogation claim can be immediately refuted since verse 2:62 that is claimed
abrogated is a statement of fact, thus cannot be abrogated per the Facts
validation rule. This point was made by Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] and Zeid [206].

Independently of this point, the apparent conflict can be resolved. Chris-
tians and Jews who followed their prophet before the next prophet was sent

7. Less FAMOUS CLAIMS 7.4. FATE OF NON-MUSLIMS (2:62, 5:69)

have done the right thing (Ibn Al-Jawzi [147]), so this is consistent with how
verse 2:62 accepts them among the believers. The issue is how to reconcile
this with the statement in verse 3:85 that religions other than Islam are not
accepted.

The reconciliation focuses on the word 'Islam' which in Arabic means sub-
mission [to God]. The word is universally used to refer to the message that
Muhammad (PBUH) delivered, but it is not restricted to that meaning as evi-
denced by what the Quran itself says. For example, the religion that prophets
Abraham (PBUH) and Jacob (PBUH) advocated was referred to as Islam,

MG 5) 2a) Blo! dil 5) 25 Sy ik55 a st Ae UH
We 3,811 { (gohan gale] 2545 'i 3 ee

[2:132] And Abraham instructed with it his sons and [so did] Jacob,
[saying], "O my sons, verily, God has chosen for you the religion, so
do not die except as Muslims."

so was the religion that Jesus (PBUH) delivered,

gh ylpl Jt al J) celal 3 2 J Sead ie cane Ls >
[ot ol ae Jl Gals bl Sebly abl Gal Ail 3Lail ce

[3:52] But when Jesus felt disbelief from them, he said, "Who are
my supporters for God?" The disciples said, "We are the supporters
for God. We have believed in God and testify that we are [Muslims|."

Therefore, when verse 3:85 mentions Islam, that includes the religions delivered
by previous prophets of God, so there is no conflict with the glad tidings that
verse 2:62 brings to followers of those religions; they held identical beliefs to
what Islam teaches.

This interpretation is consistent with how verse 2:62 describes those fol-
lowers as "who believed in God and the Final Day and did good works" which
is what Islam teaches. Shula [199] emphasized this qualifying description in
refuting the abrogation claim.

How about followers of previous religions after their Scripture was altered,
or after Muhammad (PBUH) was sent with the final message? The references we
cited and the exegeses they quote address these important questions. What
we addressed here was how to reconcile the verses in the abrogation claim.
Once this is done, the conclusion is that both verses should be fully taken into
consideration, together with other evidence, to arrive at the final ruling. Our
focus is on refuting the abrogation claim, not what the final ruling is.

7. Less FAMOUS CLAIMS 7.4. FATE OF NON-MUSLIMS (2:62, 5:69)

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

Another verse in the Quran, which was revealed after both verses in this
abrogation claim! has almost identical wording to verse 2:62 that is claimed
abrogated (Zeid [206]),

ajally aL Gal bs Hladlly GLEN 1,5 rev Ig2T Spc 3)
[ra sll ¢ Ob5% ob Vy agile GE blo Jus5 35

[5:69] Verily, those who have believed, those who followed Ju-
daism, the Sabeans, and the Christians - who believed in God and the
Final Day and did righteousness - for them is their reward with their
Lord and no fear shall be upon them nor shall they grieve.

Zeid goes on to exclaim how abrogation can be even conceived given this later
verse.

There is a narration from Ibn Abbas (RA) where he was addressing verse 2:62
and said that God revealed verse 3:85 after that. Some commented that this
means abrogation. In addition to this being their opinion and not something
that Ibn Abbas (RA) himself said, Zeid [206] points out that this narration is
disconnected, hence its authenticity is questionable.

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Among many pro-abrogation scholars who rejected the claim, Zeid [206]
used several arguments to refute the claim, and so did Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] by
quoting exegeses and further by invoking the Facts validation rule. Shula [199]
rejected this claim by reconciling the verses.

F) Conclusion:

It is quite straightforward to reconcile the verses in this claim,

People who believed in God, the Final Day, and did good
works will be rewarded for it and will have nothing to worry
about. This is the message of Islam that all prophets of God
preached to their followers. God will not accept a religion that
is different from that on Judgment Day.

1 The verse is in Chapter 5 which is widely recognized as the last chapter revealed in the
Quran. Some scholars conclude that it has no abrogated verses based on that (see Al-Nahhas
[71] and Ibn Sallam [171]).

7. Less FAMOUS CLAIMS 7.5. LEGAL RETRIBUTION (2:178)

7.5 Legal Retribution (2:178)

This claim pertains to legal retribution for murder.
A) The claim:

The verse claimed abrogated is

[2:178] O you who have believed, prescribed to you is retribution
for the murdered: a free man for a free man, a bondman for a bond-
man, and a female for a female. But if something is forgiven by the
(figurative) brother, then follow-up with virtue and carry out with
benevolence ...

and the verse claimed to abrogate it is

AL 295 tlt. dally Qe le af tgs cathe tees oS

BES 545 yp Shad 53 olai 645 BOG BN oy oNiy
[vo: 35] if nee

[5:45] And We prescribed upon them in it that a soul for a soul,
an eye for an eye, a nose for a nose, an ear for an ear, a tooth for
a tooth, and wounds [likewise] as retribution. But whoever forgives it
as charity, then it is expiation for him ...

Shula [199] reported that the claim was supported by Abu-Hanifa, Al-Nakhei,
and Al-Shaabi, among others. Ibn Al-Barezi [146], Al-Andalusi [19], and Ibn
Salama {170] also supported the claim and added another verse as a possible
abrogating verse,

25) JANN § G3 3G Cult a2) as 15 gL BS B25
[ry : ane ee ais OF

[17:33] ... And whoever is killed unjustly, We have assigned for his
next of kin authority, so let him not overkill for he is supported.

7. Less FAMOUS CLAIMS 7.5. LEGAL RETRIBUTION (2:178)

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The claim is based on two apparent conflicts. First, verse 2:178 seems to
exclude from retribution a murderer who is of a different status compared to
the murdered, while the verses claimed to abrogate it make no such exclusion.
Second, verse 2:178 seems to imply that retribution can be directed at someone
other than the murderer, while verse 5:45 does not.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

The verses in this claim can be reconciled by noting that they are address-
ing two different situations, individual retribution versus group retribution.
Qutb [191] explains the difference as follows.

The scope of verse 5:45 is individual retribution when a certain person
attacks a certain person (cges 3,8 le ccee 23 5), in which case the individual
culprit or culprits are punished. The scope of verse 2:178 is retribution against
group attack, such as a tribe attacking a tribe or a clan attacking a clan, where
collaborative effort by the attacking group collectively caused deaths in the
other group. In this case, the verse is prescribing retribution against the culprit
group as a whole.

How do we know that group attack is the scope of verse 2:178? Several
exegetes, e.g. Al-Tabari [107], report a narration about the circumstances
of revelation. The narration describes two tribes that had an indiscriminate
fight (2c Jls) that resulted in multiple deaths, and the tribes were seeking
excessive retribution for their dead. This type of occurrence was not just
an isolated incident in that era, as Ibn Ashur [153] details.

The key point in group retribution that verse 2:178 addresses is the pre-
vention of escalation (Al-Shaarawi [92]). Escalation would happen if those
who were attacked seek a retribution that is disproportionate, which in turn
would lead to further disproportionate attacks, retributions, and deaths. Al-
Shaarawi specifically concludes that "God is addressing here an escalation case
of retribution." Preventing escalation requires constraints on group retribution
such that, while attackers don't get away with murder, the situation does not
spiral out of control.

The situation that the verse is dealing with is a reality that has occurred
throughout history. Al-'Shaarawi [92] gives a concrete example of clan wars in
modern times. Unfortunately, group attacks are part of the human experience;
they happen at all levels, even at the national scale, and they need rules to be
dealt with properly.

Therefore, the ruling of verse 2:178 is needed until this very day, both to
deter group attacks and to avoid their escalation. It deters the attacks by
instituting a punishment for them and avoids escalation by constraining this
punishment. As Qutb [191] elaborates, lives will be saved when these goals

7. Less FAMOUS CLAIMS 7.5. LEGAL RETRIBUTION (2:178)

are achieved, as the verse immediately after alludes to,

[Wa 8,8] { .. QIY Dyl G StS Golaall 3 22415 }
[2:179] And there is for you in legal retribution [saving of] life, O
you people of understanding ...

A second reconciliation also sees verse 2:178 as addressing group retri-
bution - but on the financial side. This means the money paid to victims' kin,
if they accept it, in lieu of the physical punishment. Al-Tabari [107], among
other exegetes, cites a story? where the Prophet (PBUH) arbitrated a settlement
between two warring groups, canceling out the amounts of money to be paid
for those killed based on their status.

The abrogation claim is therefore not valid based on the Sameness valida-
tion rule. The verses in the claim are not dealing with the same situation, so
there is no conflict between them.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

A number of narrations cited by Al-Tabari [107] are consistent with the
first reconciliation argument we presented, and other narrations (Al-Tabari
[107]) are consistent with the second reconciliation argument. However, these
narrations do not have reliable authentication information.

Many early scholars refer to the pre-Islamic practices about retribution
that verse 2:178 altered and base their interpretation of the verse on that. [bn
Al-Jawzi [147] concurs, applying the rule that ot le done clgaall ue Ole! I>

Axe sil > +2,ly (the jurists' understanding from a text is evidence unless
a stronger evidence contradicts it) to substantiate the understanding of the
early scholars. Their understanding was influenced by their recollection of the
retaliation practices of the Arabs in the pre-Islamic era.

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] was unambiguous in rejecting the claim. Ibn Sallam
[171] rejected the claim, agreeing with a refutation argument by Ibn Abbas
(RA) that he reported.

A number of exegetes, e.g., Al-Tabari [107], reconciled the verses based on
the interpretation that they chose. Zeid [206] rejected the claim, agreeing with
an interpretation by Al-Tabari.

Based on chronology, Zeid {206] also rejected the claim that the abrogating
verse is 17:33. He noted that this verse belongs to a Quranic chapter that was

2No authentication information was given for the story, but we include it to explain the
basis that was used for the reconciliation argument.

7. Less FAMOUS CLAIMS 7.6. INTENTIONAL KILLING (4:93)

revealed in Mecca while the verse claimed abrogated was revealed later in
Medina.

F) Conclusion:

We can make this simple reconciliation statement to show that the verses
in this abrogation claim have no conflict,

Legal retribution is allowed for victims, their kin, or their larger
group. In individual cases, only the culprit person is to be pun-
ished, equitably, not more and not anyone else. In group cases,
where a group collectively attacked another group, retribution
is allowed against the attacking group as a whole, but it also
has to be equitable: one-for-one and in kind.

7.6 Intentional Killing (4:93)

While the previous section addressed worldly punishment for intentional killing
(murder), this section addresses its punishment in the Hereafter.

A) The claim:

Ibn Al-Barezi [146] reported the claim that

Ale AU) Cds ed IDE ABGS 25558 (lake Le JUS Bay
[av cL { be bide J ety aiads

[4:93] And whoever kills a believer intentionally - his recompense is
Hell, wherein he will abide eternally, and God has become angry with
him and has cursed him and has prepared for him a grand torment.

was abrogated by

[vs slid] BLES 52) BUS 93 be 3g 2 Bp GN ads Y ait 5)

[4:116] Verily, God does not forgive being associated with [in wor-
ship], but He forgives what is below that for whom He wills ...

and by a similarly worded earlier verse, 4:48. Al-Andalusi [19] and Ibn Salama
[170] also reported these claims, and added an abrogating verse,

7. Less FAMOUS CLAIMS 7.6. INTENTIONAL KILLING (4:93)

iN 655. ahh ple Gees VG ST ait gs B25 Y galt p
[W: ob all € GU gb US Lb 325 O55 G BLY
[25:68] And those who do not invoke with God another deity, nor
kill the soul which God has sanctioned, except by right, nor fornicate.
And whoever does that will meet with requital.

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The claimants did not spell out what the perceived conflict is, but it prob-
ably is that verse 4:116 declares that God's forgiveness covers every sin other
than associating others with Him in worship, so it must include intentional
killing which verse 4:93 seems to suggest is unforgivable. As for verse 25:68,
the perceived conflict could be that the verse makes an exception of "except
by right" in the case of killing, whereas verse 4:93 makes no such exception.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

This is the third claim in a row where the verse claimed abrogated is
a statement of fact, hence not subject to abrogation per the Facts validation
rule. Al-Razi [83] decries claiming that such a statement by God is abrogated
as "close to (religious) infidelity" (as Or ol ce ~ +). Notwithstanding this
obvious refutation of the abrogation claim, the perceived conflict between the
verses in the claim can be reconciled.

As Al-Razi [83] argues, verse 4:116 could be making an exception from the
threat of verse 4:93. As he phrases it, "not carrying a threat is generosity"
(eS 4£3)! Wale). A possible case for exception is where the murderer has
repented.? This would be consistent with verse 4:116, where the qualification
"for whomever He wills" now applies to a murderer who repented before he
died, and that would make it an exception from verse 4:93, not an abrogation.

To see that exceptions can be made even from rulings that may sound
absolute like that of verse 4:93, one need not look further than the ruling in
verse 4:116 itself. Repentance applies even to the ultimate sin, associating
others with God in worship. A polytheist who converts to Islam wipes out all
prior sins. If 4:116 were unconditional, then a convert from polytheism would
not be accepted which is clearly not the case (Al-Razi [83]).

There is also a Prophetic narration that is consistent with this reconcilia-
tion. It was reported by Abu-Dawoud [3] and authenticated by the verifier of
his book, Al-Arnaoot, that the Prophet (PBUH) said "Whoever killed a believer
and was glad he did, God would not accept from him any excuse or compen-
sation". In view of this narration, verse 4:93 would be addressing a murderer
who did not repent while verse 4:116 is making an exception for repentance.

3The exception is from punishment in the Hereafter. The worldly punishment still stands.

7. Less FAMOUS CLAIMS 7.6. INTENTIONAL KILLING (4:93)

A second argument is possible even if verse 4:93 is interpreted as an ab-
solute with no exceptions. The verse can still be reconciled with verse 4:116
because 4:116 specifies a contingency, "for whomever He wills". Therefore,
a possible reconciliation is that God could forgive the murderer of a believer,
but He decided He will not, per 4:93.

As for the perceived conflict between verses 25:68 and 4:93, that can be
reconciled by observing that "except by right" in verse 25:68 is an exception
from its command not to kill. The statement in verse 4:93 condemns killers
in general, so that exception is an elaboration of the general statement. It is
making an exception from it, not an abrogation of it.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

There are narrations attributed to Ibn Abbas (RA) related to this abrogation
claim (Appendix A.3), including narrations that reverse the role of which verse
is abrogated and which is abrogating in the claim. Most notable are narrations
reported through different chains where he rejects the claim altogether. It is
one of the rare cases where the authenticity of these narrations rises to the
level of certain in sourcing, as shown in that Appendix.

In another narration that was reported and authenticated by Al-Bukhari
[35], Ibn Abbas (RA) explained that verses 25:68-70 are about polytheists who
thought it was too late for them to regret their past and accept Islam, while
verse 4:93 is about Muslims who knew the law but deliberately killed a fellow
Muslim, thus reconciling the two verses as addressing two different groups.

Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] supported the exception of repenters from the condem-
nation of verse 4:93, which reconciles the abrogation claim, citing the verse

wins lhe Gl JG DAG ALS Tee Jo85 Gag OEY W>
[Ve OB aN € Lees 1 gt abl O65
[25:70] Except for those who repent, believe, and do righteous

work. For them, God will replace their evil deeds with good. And ever
is God Forgiving and Merciful.

which comes shortly after the threat in verse 25:68, and declares that repen-
tance is not only accepted by God but that He will even count the sins as if
they were good deeds because of this repentance.

Finally, another argument against abrogation by verse 25:68 is that Chap-
ter 25 was revealed in Mecca, and Chapter 4 was revealed in Medina long after
it, so verse 25:68 could not possibly abrogate verse 4:93.

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Ibn Abbas (RA) rejected this claim according to authenticated narrations

7. Less Famous CLAIMS 7.7. ACCIDENTAL KILLING (4:92)

(Appendix A.3). Many pro-abrogation scholars also rejected the claim, in-
cluding Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] who presented many arguments that all the verses
mentioned in the claim were not abrogated, Al-Nahhas [71] who also pre-
sented several arguments, and Al-Razi [83] who rejected the claim in very
strong terms.

F) Conclusion:

This claim can be refuted with a reconciliation statement such as the fol-
lowing,

Intentional killing of a believer is such a major sin that God
has set its punishment to be a grand and permanent torment
in Hell. Yet, the door of repentance is open with God, as He
wills.

7.7 Accidental Killing (4:92)

The discussion now moves from intentional killing to accidental killing. The
subject matter is unique in that although it is about something done by mis-
take with no malintent, and as such would normally not carry religious reper-
cussions, it does have serious repercussions that befit the sanctity of human
life.

A) The claim:

This verse, which details the remedies for accidental killing,

aia ace ah bigs Rahs 185 2, SoS 5 (ks Cebs [5 325. }

oA

Oly Rebs £55 Fe PSS See 585 cea ite ae Ge OF SY lene
ede 155 5 455 als| J} ru eae es Pane Repose aL 5 pS p58 G2 OF
[aes Ll] € .. "A 5p LS olan rae Heed A 3

[4:92] ... And whoever kills a believer by mistake, then the freeing
of a believing slave and a compensation payment delivered to the
deceased's family [is required], unless they forgive as charity. But
if the deceased was from a folk who are your enemy and he was
a believer, then [the only requirement is] the freeing of a believing
slave. And if he was from a people with whom you have a treaty, then
a compensation payment delivered to his family and the freeing of
a believing slave. And whoever does not have the means, then fasting
two consecutive months [instead], a way to repent offered by God ...

7. Less Famous CLAIMS 7.7. ACCIDENTAL KILLING (4:92)

was claimed abrogated by,

Ly: Aasell] € GSE ye SIBLE Gy5N Ay ah 255 all Ge S23

[9:1] Disavowal by God and His Messenger [is hereby announced]
unto those whom you have covenanted of the polytheists.

by Ibn Salama [170] who limited the abrogation to the second part of verse
4:92 that starts with "But if the deceased was from a folk who are your enemy".
Al-Andalusi [19] agreed.

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

While Al-Andalusi and Ibn Salama did not mention why they thought
verse 9:1 abrogated verse 4:92, the fact that they both specified the part that
starts with "But if the deceased was from a folk who are your enemy" in 4:92 as
the abrogated part sheds some light. Presumably, the conflict they saw is that
verse 9:1 absolves Muslims from all covenanted obligations toward polytheists,
so Muslims should not have to compensate those who are still polytheists for
anything, including what verse 4:92 prescribes they should if a Muslim relative
of those polytheists was killed by mistake.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

The presumed conflict that we described above can be easily reconciled.
The covenants that verse 9:1 refers to are non-aggression treaties as we elab-
orated in §6.2 when we discussed the "sword verse" claims. These treaties
are between Muslims as a group and different groups of polytheists. Verse
4:92 has nothing to do with non-aggression treaties; it addresses an accident
involving two individual Muslims, the killer and the victim, where the victim
happens to have polytheist kin. These are two different situations.

The difference can be further seen when we examine the details of the
ruling. What verse 4:92 prescribes is an expiation for the killer within the
Muslim group. For example, the verse says "if the deceased was from a folk
who are your enemy and he was a believer, then [the only requirement is] the
freeing of a believing slave." This does not involve the kin of the victim
at all; it only relates to the expiation of the killer. Similarly, fasting for two
months does not involve the kin of the victim, so it has no relation to whatever
covenants exist or do not exist between groups.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

The claimants, Al-Andalusi and Ibn Salama, did not mention any evidence
supporting this claim.

7. Less FAMOUS CLAIMS 7.8. FIGHTING BACK (2:190)

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] rejected this claim and wrote that the majority has
ruled that wrongful death of a Muslim by another Muslim is expiated by
a compensation payment and emancipation of a Muslim slave. He mentioned
some scholars who agreed, including Ibn Abbas (Ra), Al-Sadusi, Al-Zuhri, Al-
Shaabi, as well as Imams Abu-Hanifa and Al-Shafei.

F) Conclusion:

A reconciling statement can be made based on the above argument,

Notwithstanding animosity or covenants between groups, if
an individual believer accidentally kills another believer, there
is a prescribed expiation that the killer has to abide by. The
specifics of this expiation depend on the particulars of the sit-
uation, as specified in verse 4:92.

7.8 Fighting Back (2:190)

A) The claim:

Al-Khazraji [63] made the claim that:

CY i) 51285 Vy AS LE GSN abl Jue Go Ipbstis
[yar atl € Gpatadl

[2:190] And fight in the way of God those who fight you and do
not transgress. Indeed. God does not like transgressors.

was abrogated by:

wSaSlé CHIEN Ls fbep gil 15566 cAatle SKI YS. >
[ses 5 Ad Gaal as abl SI lylely al 1,5,

[2:194] ... So whoever has transgressed against you, then return
their transgression likewise, and watch out for God and know that
God is with those who watch out for Him.

7. Less FAMOUS CLAIMS 7.8. FIGHTING BACK (2:190)

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The perceived conflict is between the command Peerat) in verse 2:194 which
linguistically means 'transgress' (albeit in response to transgression by the
other side), and the command 1,383 Y (do not transgress) in verse 2:190.

C) Reconciliation arguments:

The reconciliation of this abrogation claim is linguistic. The above conflict
is not what a literary Arab would perceive, since verse 2:194 uses a standard
literary device called 'likeness-by-accompanying style' (als Lind} eaiglail)) In this
style, a word is chosen to match accompanying words in the same sentence
even if it is not the exact word that would convey the intended meaning.

In our case, the word 'transgress' in verse 2:194 just matches the first part
of the sentence "whoever transgresses against you" and means "fight them
back" rather than literally "transgress against them". The style adds a literary
quality to the sentence because of the element of surprise, where the use of
a similar word draws attention first then the dissimilarity in meaning triggers
thought and appreciation.

There are other examples of this style in the Quran. Verse 42:40 states
eeceeiy tll] if 2 iia: Lie oOo 2\5S5 ®, literally "and the punishment of a sin
is a sin like it." That would obviously be a wrong translation. The meaning
is "and the punishment of a sin is something unpleasant like it", Another
example from common expressions used by the Arabs refers to a minimal diet
of dates and water as ola Vl (the two blacks). Dates may be black, but water
is not.

Given this literary understanding, both verses in this abrogation claim
advocate the same thing, namely not to start hostility but only attack those
who attack you first. There is no conflict.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

The claimant, Al-Khazraji [63], gave no evidence pertaining to the claim.
Two other abrogation claims were separately made about verses in the same
sequence of the two verses of this claim,

«22° 03

eens : Ss Guinan 2 th he
Day AI Gp pO 2155 DSS pa LY

[2:191] And kill them wherever you overtake them and expel them
from wherever they have expelled you, and fitnah [religious persecu-
tion] is worse than killing. And do not fight them at the Sacrosanct

7. Less FAMOUS CLAIMS 7.8. FIGHTING BACK (2:190)

Mosque until they fight you there. But if they fight you, then kill
them. Such is the recompense of the disbelievers.

was said to have abrogated 2:190, while

GIGS SE SSI lb al 525) 5 Aas AS OARS BS aaghslbs
Lay :5,ad { Galli fe )
[2:193] Fight them until there would be no persecution and the

religion would be for God. And if they cease, then there is to be no
aggression except against the oppressors.

was said to have abrogated 2:191. The reconciliation of these claims falls under
the same argument that reconciles the bundle of fighting claims in §6.2; defend
yourself vigorously, but do not initiate aggression.

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:

We have not found any other pro-abrogation scholar who discussed this
claim in the first place.

F) Conclusion:

This simple reconciliation statement settles the claim,

Never initiate hostility, but whoever transgresses against you
fight them back in kind.

ua")

This takes care of the last abrogation claims that, in our view, warrant
a discussion in some detail. In the next chapter, we cover the rest of the
claims. These are weaker claims, and we will cover them more succinctly. It
is worth noting that, outside of the major claims that we discussed earlier in
detail, all other claims do not have enough credibility to affect the outcome
of the debate about the Abrogation Doctrine. They are included mostly for
completeness.

Chapter 8

Weaker Claims

In this chapter, we present the remaining abrogation claims that were men-
tioned in the classic literature. Most of these claims had little support from
the pro-abrogation scholars.

Some of the claims are easily refuted by one or more validation rules. We
will group these by the validation rule they break. Some are blanket claims
that are resolved by the same, simple argument. There are also claims that
are rejected by most scholars as frivolous. We will group them by the reason
they are seen as frivolous.

Scholars have had unkind words to say about a number of weak claims.
Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] commented on some claims by saying "I avoided mentioning
verses that were claimed abrogated in writings that do not accomplish other
than wasting time most_excessively" (aru pel ob cman We opted to
include all claims for completeness. For easy reference, we include a table
at the end of the chapter that lists all the claims in it and why they were
dismissed.

8.1 Validation-Based Claims

We mention here the abrogation claims that were largely dismissed by pro-
abrogation scholars because these claims did not meet the basic requirements
for abrogation that were set by the scholars. The requirements were formalized
in the validation rules presented in §3.3.

Some of these claims can be refuted in multiple ways, with different ar-
guments or different validation rules. We will list them under the principal
validation rule that they violate, and then mention other ways they can be
refuted as well.

8. WEAKER CLAIMS 8.1. VALIDATION-BASED CLAIMS

e Elaboration

Many abrogation claims were made because a verse elaborates what another
verse stated in general, brief, or implicit terms. The majority of scholars
have written that elaboration does not constitute abrogation because it does
not result in an annulment of the rulings they elaborate (See the Elaboration
validation rule). Zeid [206] dedicated 44 pages to refute these claims. Ibn Al-
Jawzi [147] also addressed elaboration and dismissed many abrogation claims
on that basis.

A common elaboration method is by specification. Specification may be
done by stating to whom a ruling applies, or where or when it applies. Here
is an example,!

[V8 aM] ... pEad 5S 55 Steal peace C5 p
(2:216] Fighting has been enjoined upon you while it is hateful to
yOu ...

The verse states that fighting an enemy is required, even though it is hated. Al-
Nahhas [71] wrote that some whom he did not name said that it was abrogated
by

AGE nah 3858 B ye 5S VLG 1 Fak) 6 LI OK Lg }
[V60 : A gol]

[9:122] And it is not for the believers to mobilize all at once, for
there should be a group that mobilizes from each community ...

which instructs Muslims to not go all out when the call to arms is sounded
but rather to let some stay behind. Those claiming abrogation thought that
the call to arms requires all able bodies to rush to the battlefield". The fact is
that whether all go out or some remain behind does not negate that fighting
an enemy is required of Muslims as needed, a reasoning Al-Nahhas included.
Shula [199] opined that verse 2:216 is general and verse 9:122 specifies it. He
also wrote that the majority rejected this claim.

The abrogation claims against the following verses can all be refuted as
specification, not abrogation: 2:216, 2:228, 2:236, 2:282, 4:7, 4:24, 4:29, 4:71,
5:42, 6:141, 9:2, 9:43-45, 16:91, 17:24, 18:29, 22:78, 24:4, 24:6, 24:27, 24:58,
and 29:46. Al-Nimr [74] identified 48 of them.

1 This abrogation claim is closely related to one of Al-Suyuti's claims, also about fighting.
See page 148.

?Perhaps they interpreted verse 9:120 which rebukes those who stay behind and not follow
the Prophet (PBUH) to imply that.

8. WEAKER CLAIMS 8.1. VALIDATION-BASED CLAIMS

Elaboration may also be done by pointing out exceptions, i.e., stating to
whom, where, or when a ruling does not apply. As an example, let us look at
the claim against verse 2:221 which forbids Muslims from marrying polytheists.
It was said to have been abrogated by verse 5:5 which allows Muslim men
to marry chaste women from among the people of the Scripture, who are
considered polytheist by some.®

People of the Scripture are an exception from all non-Muslim communities
when it comes to what is allowed. We have already seen an exception for their
diet in §7.1, and verse 5:5 continues to include marriage as well. Thus, the
verse elaborates verse 2:221 by pointing out an exception to a general rule
(Al-Maqdesi [68]). The same argument also refutes the claim against verse
60:10 which prohibits Muslims from continuing to be married to polytheists.
Indeed, a narration attributed to Ibn Abbas (ra) calls verse 5:5 an exception
from verse 2:221 and does not even mention the word naskh (Ibn Sallam [171]).

Many abrogation claims were made because a verse contained, or was fol-
lowed by, an exception. Scholars have been unanimous that exception is not
abrogation. The abrogation claims against the following verses can all be re-
futed on that basis: 2:159, 2:187, 2:221, 2:229, 3:86-88, 4:17, 4:71, 4:145, 5:5,
5:33, 5:95, 9:39, 9:41, 9:120, 16:106, 19:59, 22:30, 24:4, 24:31, 25:68-69, 26:224,
87:6, and 103:2.

e Sameness

Rulings cannot abrogate each other if they address different subjects, peo-
ple, places, or times. A good example of an abrogation claim that does not
take that into consideration is the claim against verse 2:229 which was said to
have been abrogated by verse 4:20. Here are the details.

Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] wrote that some claimed that verse 2:229, which allows
a wife to divorce her husband and in return give him back the dowry he had
paid her, was abrogated by verse 4:20 which forbids a husband from taking
back the dowry if he divorces his wife and marries someone else.

The two verses address different subjects. Verse 2:229 speaks of divorce
initiated by the wife, called 'withdrawing' in Islamic jurisprudence (khul-a -
ol see Sabeq [194]). It has different rules than divorce initiated by the
husband, which is what verse 4:20 speaks about. Islamic law allows a wife
to initiate divorce if she is willing to return her dowry. This is different from
a husband taking the dowry back when he initiates divorce. That was Ibn Al-
Jawzi's argument for rejecting the claim. He also said that the majority said
likewise. Makki [184] discussed the claim and then rejected it on the same
basis.

3Side note 25 shows Quranic evidence that people of the Scripture are not considered
polytheist.

8. WEAKER CLAIMS 8.1. VALIDATION-BASED CLAIMS

Another example of a claim that violates the Sameness validation rule is
what Ibn Al-Arabi [144] reported and quickly dismissed on that basis, the
claim that verse 60:8, which tells Muslims that they can be amicable with
non-Muslims who do not fight them, was abrogated by verse 58:22, which
forbids amity with hostile non-Muslims. Hostile and non-hostile are not the

same.*

e Statements of fact

The vast majority of scholars have said that statements of fact, including
events of the past, may not be abrogated. A minority of scholars have made
abrogation claims of verses that merely state facts.

The abrogation claims against the following verses can all be refuted on
that basis: 2:3, 3:41, 3:111, 3:145, 8:33, 9:97-98, 11:15, 13:6, 16:67, 19:71,
21:78-79, 21:98-100, 25:68-70, 37:102, 42:5, 42:20, 59:3 and 103:2. Al-Nimr
(74| identified 75 of them.

An example of those claims is the claim against verse 3:41, which we briefly
mentioned on page 40. The claim cites verse 3:41, which tells the story of
Prophet Zachariah (PBUH) when he asked God for a sign from Him that he will
get a son, Yahya (John the Baptist), even though Zachariah was too old to
beget a son. God told him in verse 3:41 that the sign shall be that Zachariah
will not be able to speak for three days except by gesturing.

Both Al-Khazraji [63] and Al-Nahhas [71] mention the claim that
Zachariah's silence was abrogated by a Prophetic narration® which prohibits
being silent all day. Neither author mentioned who made the claim.

Verse 3:41 is unambiguously a statement of fact about an event that has
already happened, so it cannot be subject to abrogation. Nonetheless, those
who made the abrogation claim argued that if we accept that laws of prior
nations apply to Muslims as well, which is a disputable doctrine, then the story
of Zachariah's three-day silence would imply a practice that was allowed then
but not anymore. However, even following this weak argument, Zachariah
(PBUH) did not vow silence; God told him that his sign was going to be that he
would not be able to speak for three days. There was no voluntary practice
that would conflict with the narration.

To add to the refutation, what is claimed abrogating is not a verse in the
Quran. A majority of pro-abrogation scholars have agreed that a Prophetic
narration cannot abrogate a verse. Al-Arnaoot (Abu-Dawoud [3]) further as-
serted that the narration in question is inauthentic because of the lack of trust
in several of its narrators.

4The claim also violates the Contingency validation rule, discussed in §3.3.1. In that
discussion, verse 60:8 was used as an example.
5Reported by Abu-Dawoud [3] and authenticated by Al-Albani [10].

8. WEAKER CLAIMS 8.1. VALIDATION-BASED CLAIMS

Indeed, the abrogation claim is widely rejected. Al-Nahhas [71] wrote that
"there is no abrogating nor abrogated here." Al-Khazraji [63] argued that
"stories and reports from past times would not be abrogated." Makki [184]
also rejected this claim on the basis that it is a statement of fact.

e Chronology

The chronology rule for abrogation claims, which is universally accepted, as-
serts that the abrogating verse must be revealed after the abrogated verse
chronologically. We note that two of the five claims approved by Waliyullah
[203] tolerate the fact that the verse claimed abrogating appears in the Quran
before the verse claimed to be abrogated by it. Waliyullah acknowledged the
chronology problem but said that "it is possible that the abrogator is ahead
in recitation and to me it is more likely" - 8 5u)) (3 tks eel Or ol bey
Se eb gay.

We could not find in the literature anyone who could prove that the order
of these pairs of verses in the Quran was not the same as the order of their
revelation. This is why we alluded, when we discussed the Chronology vali-
dation rule, that the applicability of the rule in a given case can neither be
proved nor disproved definitively, and it is why we don't use this validation
rule as a primary refutation tool.

e Contingency

A ruling accompanied by a condition is not abrogated by another ruling that
does not have the same condition. Contingent rulings could only be abrogated
by rulings that maintain the same contingency. Because contingency is per-
haps a bit subtle, most of the claims whose refutation is contingency-based
are not seen as weak claims and therefore addressed in other chapters of this
book. For completeness, we will give an example here of a weak claim whose
refutation is contingency-based.

The example concerns three verses that have similar wording (Ibn Al-Jawzi
[147]). The verses instruct the Prophet (PBUH) to tell Muslims

(10: ind { gabe ahs CIDE J5 Chat b SEI GO! .

[10:15] "... verily | fear, if | disobey my Lord, the torment of
a grand Day"

Verses 6:15 and 39:13 make the same statement.® These verses were claimed

6The imperative verb 'say' precedes the statement in all three verses, thus making it
a command rather than a statement of fact.

8. WEAKER CLAIMS 8.2. BLANKET CLAIMS

to be abrogated by verse 48:2 which gives the Prophet (PBUH) the glad tidings
that God is forgiving him all his infractions, past and future.

The reason there is no abrogation here is that the Prophet (PBUH) did not
disobey his Lord, so the condition stated in verse 10:15 never happened. Ibn
Al-Jawzi [147] wrote in his discussion of this claim that what is meant in verse
10:15 by disobedience is replacing the Quran, attributing to God what He did
not say, or appeasing the polytheists. This interpretation makes it even more
obvious that the condition never happened.

e Temporariness

A timed ruling is not abrogated when a subsequent ruling terminates the
waiting period. Some abrogation claims were made without considering this
logic. An example (see page 38) was a claim approved by Al-Nahhas [71] where
he wrote that verse 2:109, which advises Muslims to let pass and pardon non-
Muslims who wished they could drive Muslims away from Islam. That advice
was timed, however, until "God brings His command". Al-Nahhas still said that
it was abrogated, presumably by the "sword verse".

8.2 Blanket Claims

The most famous blanket abrogation claims are the "sword verse" claims,
which we discussed in §6.2 and will not repeat here. We also discussed related
claims of abrogation by other verses that command fighting in §6.2.1. Many
of those claims are weak, even frivolous, and it is puzzling why some of them
were made in the first place. For example, the claim that verse 7:199 about
how to deal with different people was abrogated is described by Ibn Salama
[170] as "among the most amazing".

There is another, unrelated set of blanket claims worth addressing, which
we discuss next.

8.2.1 The "Zakah Verse" Claims

The Arabic word for required almsgiving is zakah. The word literally means
growth through purification. It is one of the five pillars of Islam and is men-
tioned countless times in the Quran together with prayer.

A) The claim:

Some scholars, e.g., Ikrima according to Makki [184], approved a blanket
abrogation claim about almsgiving. These scholars said that the zakah verse,

8. WEAKER CLAIMS 8.2. BLANKET CLAIMS

by which most scholars meant verse 9:60, abrogated all charities in the Quran.
Shula [199] wrote that Al-Dahhak was one of those who made this claim. Here
is the verse,

weighs aalgclly eile austell Sachs ot; adl) E6020 Ve >
ene di Ail ail Go Ads Joa CH5 BN Jo 35 Gus lily GED 5

[1 saayelll € SS

[9:60] Charities are only for the needy, the poor, charity adminis-
trators, new Muslims, toward freeing of the slaves, the debtors, in the
cause of God, and for the stranded - a mandate from God, and God
is All-Knowing and Wise.

B) Pinpointing the conflict:

The perceived conflict is that zakah is the only spending that is mandated
and all other spending mentioned in the Quran has become voluntary and not
required. This was the view of Al-Dahhak according to Al-Qurtubi [80].

C) Reconciliation arguments:

It should be noted upfront that verse 9:60 is not about the required alms-
giving alone. It is about charity in general since it uses the word 2G14!|
(charities) and not als4) (zakah; required almsgiving). There are different
modes of giving money mentioned in different verses of the Quran, and it is
important to understand the difference between these modes in order to assess
whether there is conflict that warrants an abrogation claim.

The three modes, starting from the most general, are spending, charity,
and zakah. These modes differ in being required or optional, and in having
specific or general recipients. For example, zakah is required, not optional, and
its legitimate recipients are the ones specified in verse 9:60. Charity shares
the same recipients as zakah, but it includes optional charity that is not part
of zakah. Spending does not have restricted recipients.

Most of the spending is optional, e.g., discretionary spending, but some of
it is required, such as spending on one's wife, children, and parents. This is
how Al-Tabari [107| viewed spending. Support for orphans is also required.
Dowry and alimony are also required. Accommodation for widows is required
as well."

To illustrate how the three modes (spending, charity, and zakah) relate to
each other, think of three concentric circles. The innermost circle represents
required almsgiving (zakah). The middle circle, which encompasses the inner-

TSee §4.1

8. WEAKER CLAIMS 8.2. BLANKET CLAIMS

most circle, represents charity. The outer circle, which encompasses the two
other circles, represents spending, as shown in the following figure:

Charity

Spending

- Modes of Spending -

In other words, all required almsgiving is charity (same recipients in both),
but not all charity is required almsgiving because some charity is optional.
Also, all charity is spending, but not all spending is charity because some
spending has different recipients. With that in mind, let us look more closely
at what verse 9:60 says.

All that verse 9:60 does is define the legitimate recipients, i.e., to whom
charity, including the required alms, is to be given (Makki [184]). Thus, the
only credible claims of abrogation by it must logically be verses that specify
different charity recipients. There are no such verses.

D) Evidence pertaining to the claim:

Makki referred to Ikrima and a narration by Ibn Wahb from Khalid ibn
Imran. We could not find a narrator named Khalid ibn Imran. We tried to
also look for Khalid ibn Abi-Imran and found him but could not find that
narration to Ibn Wahb. We did, however, find the same text attributed to Ali
(RA), but the narration encyclopedia (Al-Dorar Al-Saniyya [89]) rated it weak.

Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] wrote that Abu-Jaafar Yazid ibn Al-Qaaqaa said that
the zakah verse abrogated all charities mentioned before it. We found that he
was a trustworthy narrator but we could not find that narration attributed to
him in a reliable source.

E) Scholars who did not approve the claim:
Al-Saadi [91] interpreted verse 9:60 as detailing the ways zakah money

must be spent, and Shula [199] rejected the abrogation claim based on the
same interpretation as these details do not conflict with the spending orders

8. WEAKER CLAIMS 8.2. BLANKET CLAIMS

in previous verses. Shula also wrote that the majority of exegetes rejected the
claim.

Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] rejected this claim on the basis that other charities than
the zakah remain and are rewarded.

Zeid [206] rejected this claim on the basis of no conflict.
F) Conclusion:

Just as the "sword verse" claims can all be refuted with one reconcilia-
tion statement, so can all the zakah claims be refuted with this reconciliation
statement,

Zakah is mandatory but is not the only form of spending that
is. The "zakah verse" sets eight venues of zakah and other
charities, and the sunna (Prophetic traditions) sets the amount
of the zakah.

The above reconciliation statement refutes the abrogation claims against the
following verses: 2:3, 2:215, 2:219, 7:199, 9:34, 47:36, 58:12, 63:10, 70:24, 70:25
and 87:14.

e Day of the harvest (6:141) There is one additional weak abrogation claim
about zakah that is mentioned in the literature, this one has to do with the
timing of giving required alms. The sunna of the Prophet (PBUH) specifies the
amounts and the timing of paying the zakah. Verse 6:141 sets the timing for
the specific case of harvested crops to be the day of the harvest itself, unlike
the timing set by the Prophet (PBUH) to be once a year for other property such
as cash, livestock, gold, and silver.

It is not clear where the conflict is that resulted in a claim of abrogation
here. All aspects of the timing, whether in the Prophetic traditions or in verse
6:141, just elaborate the manner of paying required alms and do not conflict
with one another. Certainly, no Quranic verse sets the timing for harvested
crops differently from what verse 6:141 asserts. There is no evidence that the
Prophet (PBUH) collected zakah on crops on any day other than the day of the
harvest.

e Voluntary spending (2:219)

Another related claim concerns verse 2:219 which answers a question Mus-
lims asked of the Prophet (PBUH) about what they may spend. The answer of
the Quran is that what they may spend is excess money. The verse was said
to have been abrogated by verse 9:103 which instructs the Prophet (PBUH) to
collect from Muslims a charity with which they are cleansed and purified.®

8Tbn Salama [170] opined that verse 9:103 is the "zakah verse" rather than the more
widely acknowledged verse 9:60.

8. WEAKER CLAIMS 8.3. FRIVOLOUS CLAIMS

So where is the conflict? The Arabic word that verse 9:103 uses for 'pu-
rify' is the verb from which zakah (required alms) is derived. The misperceived
conflict here is thinking that voluntary spending of saved money has been over-
ruled by the zakah mandate, but 'excess' means money left after all required
spending which includes zakah. We put this claim under the zakah section be-
cause of its subject matter, but it can be viewed as one of the frivolous claims
which are the subject of the next section.

8.3 Frivolous Claims

These are abrogation claims found in the literature where the rationale for
claiming abrogation has been thoroughly rejected by the scholars. A good
example is the claim that verse 87:6 abrogated verses 20:114, 22:52 and 75:16.
All of these verses address the fidelity of conveying God's words. The claim
of abrogation is based on the fabricated story of Gharaneeg (3,\45\ - crane
birds that the Arabs used as a metaphor for tall idols).? Other claims are
so frivolous that they did not even cite a rationale for abrogation. We list in
this section all the frivolous claims we encountered that were studied by the
scholars and we classify them by the reason they are frivolous.

e No conflict to resolve

The abrogation claims made against the following verses can all be refuted on
the basis that there is no conflict to resolve: 2:217, 2:219, 2:228, 2:229, 2:286,
3:20, 4:2, 4:3, 4:6, 4:8, 4:10, 4:24, 4:64, 4:90, 4:91, 5:13, 5:106-108, 6:68-69,
6:152, 7:199, 8:15-16, 8:38, 8:61, 8:67, 9:5, 9:34, 9:80, 9:123, 16:106, 17:34,
17:35, 17:110, 20:114, 22:39, 22:52, 24:2, 24:3, 24:4, 24:32, 24:61, 33:49, 33:51,
33:52, 42:23, 42:39-42, 42:42, 46:9, 47:4, 47:36, 47:36-37, 51:19, 51:54, 52:48,
56:13-14, 60:8, 60:11, 67:16, 70:24-25, 73:1-2, 73:3, 73:5, 73:19, 75:16, 76:29,
80:12, 81:28, and 88:22. Al-Nimr [74] identified 63 of them.

Many abrogation claims were made on the basis of a misperceived conflict,
hence no real conflict to resolve. We address some of the more noted ones
next.

The procession ritual (2:158)

This verse addresses a pilgrimage ritual, the procession between the Safa
and Marwa hills of Mecca (39 ,oJly all cs eJl). The perceived conflict lead-
ing to the abrogation claim is that the words adhe cle Y ('there is no blame on
him") in the verse seem to mean that this procession ritual is optional, not re-
quired. There is abundant evidence in the tradition of the Prophet (PBUH) that

°The story will be elaborated in §12.3.1.

8. WEAKER CLAIMS 8.3. FRIVOLOUS CLAIMS

the ritual is a required pillar of the pilgrimage. Failure to do the procession
between Safa and Marwa invalidates the pilgrimage altogether.

The view that verse 2:158 makes the ritual optional is misconstrued. The
wording "there is no blame on him" in the verse means that doing the ritual
is not blameworthy. The reason this statement had to be made is that in
the pre-Islamic era, the Arabs placed two idols on top of the two hills and
performed the procession ritual while the idols were so placed. In Islam, the
two idols were removed, but some Muslims may have felt apprehensive about
doing the ritual as the memory of its polytheist past was still fresh in their
minds (Ibn Salama [170]).

Spoils of war (8:1)

The misperceived conflict here is that the phrase JywjSl, aU ('to God and
the Messenger"), mentioned in verse 8:1, would mean that the spoils of war
are to be taken by God and His Messenger only, nothing to the soldiers. The
phrase does not mean that at all. It simply means that the spoils of a battle
must be left to God and His Messenger to distribute, not left to the soldiers
to grab. That is what the verse claimed abrogating, verse 8:41, clarifies.

Praying for hypocrites (9:103) The misperceived conflict in this case is
understanding verse 9:103 to encourage the Prophet (PBUH) to pray for the
hypocrites among the Muslims, while verse 9:84 forbids that. Makki [184]
did not agree with the claim as he saw verse 9:103 to be specific about three
Muslims who sneaked out from joining the battle of Tabuk, felt bad about it
and asked for forgiveness, and God revealed verse 9:118 to announce that He
accepted their repentance.

Be that as it may, verse 9:103 is not actually specific. Its context is about
Muslims who admit their misdeeds and repent. Makki acknowledged that in
a following paragraph by pointing out the essence of the Sameness validation
rule, namely that verse 9:103 is about praying for repenting Muslims, while
verse 9:84 is about praying for deceased hypocrites.

No entitlement on Judgment Day (53:39)

Are a believer's children entitled to join him in Paradise? Does verse
52:21 about joining parents and children in the Hereafter abrogate verse 53:39
which asserts that "there is not for man except what he strove for", and annul
individual accountability through the mediation of parents for their children?
This abrogation claim was made as a result of thinking that the answer to
these questions is yes.

Many verses in the Quran have repeatedly said that the answer is no, that
every soul is responsible for itself (74:38) and will be questioned individually
(19:95). In fact, verse 52:21 confirms individual responsibility when it con-

8. WEAKER CLAIMS 8.3. FRIVOLOUS CLAIMS

tinues to say "Every person, for what he earned, is retained." And it places
a constraint on children joining their parents as it says "and their offspring
followed them in faith." The children will be joined with their parents because
of the children's faith, not because they are children of believers.

Neglecting a duty (4:8 and 24:58)

Al-Suyuti initially included these two claims in his famous tally of twenty
abrogation claims (see §6.3) then quickly dismissed them saying that they were
not abrogated (Al-Suyuti {100]) but people neglected following them. Indeed,
failure to follow a ruling is not a rationale to claim it was abrogated. These
are good examples of frivolous claims.

The first claim was about paying inheritance charity, as instructed in verse
4:8. The second claim was about asking for permission to enter as part of
home etiquette, as instructed in verse 24:58. Both instructions remain in
place regardless of how often they were followed.

Will enforcement (4:9)
According to Ibn Al-Jawzi [147], the verse,

| BAG 2 ge \ eld Glew 435 meals oy (sa ss
(4: clad] { te re a ay

[4:9] And those who would worry about their weak offsprings if
they left them behind, let them beware so they would watch out for
God and say the proper thing.

was said to have been abrogated by

aol 5) ale 3) 3G cats alol 4) 5 rere rs cay
[VAC 3 ,3II] € hae gat
[2:182] Then if one had feared from a testator a partiality or
malfeasance then reconciled between them, then there is no sin upon
him. Verily, God is much Forgiving and Merciful.

The misperceived conflict is that if those addressed by verse 4:9 are the
executors of the will, and since the verse instructs them to be faithful in
what they do, some saw that as conflicting with verse 2:182 which allows the
executor to guard against injustice found in a will. Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] said
that this is the opinion of his teacher, Ali ibn Ubaidillah.

Ibn Al-Jawzi went on to report several other opinions about who might be
addressed in verse 4:9. If the addressed are the witnesses to the will telling

8. WEAKER CLAIMS 8.3. FRIVOLOUS CLAIMS

them to honor the will, which is the majority opinion, or if the addressed are
the witnesses to the will prohibiting them from preventing the testator from
giving a will, or are the guardians of orphans, then there is no conflict to
justify abrogation.

Al-Saqga [88] wrote that there is not even a relationship between the two
verses. Verse 4:9 enjoins people to treat people right as they would worry
about their weak offspring, while verse 2:182 speaks of wills in particular.
Indeed, verse 4:9 addresses anyone who would worry about what will become
of his weak offspring after he dies. It enjoins him, therefore, that he say the
right thing and treat everyone like he would want his weak offspring to be
treated after he dies.

The interpretation of the majority, e.g., Ibn Abbas (Ra), Mujahid, and Al-
Sadusi, of who is addressed by verse 4:9 leads to the conclusion of no abrogation
(Ibn Al-Jawzi [147]). Ibn Al-Jawzi leaned toward these interpretations of 4:9
because, as he put it, "If he (the testator) willed unjustly, it would not be

enforceable - wl le de Spe ol em ope si a} a,

e Self abrogation

These are abrogation claims where the abrogating text and the abrogated text
are in one and the same verse. Such claims are invalid because, as Chapter 9
will show, the abrogating verse must be another verse, not the same one.

The abrogation claims made against the following verses, therefore, can all
be dismissed on that basis: 2:191, 2:196, 2:229, 2:233, 2:235, 2:282, 3:97, 4:19,
4:22, 4:23, 4:25, 4:29, 5:105, 16:106, 24:31, 40:77 and 42:40.

e No reason stated

These are abrogation claims made without saying why or without naming the
abrogating text. Seven claims with no abrogating text, of which we know, have
been made. Appendix A.2 lists all abrogation claims, including those where
no abrogating text has been cited. They are the claims with the "[Claimed
Abrogating]" column saying "Not mentioned", namely the claims about verses
2:104, 22:28, 23:96, 24:58, 39:53, 94:7 and 107:7. Additional claims where no
reason was cited for abrogation are the claims made about verses 5:2, 6:66-67,
12:109, 14:34, 73:4, 73:5, and 76:26.

e Other abrogating text

Lastly, in Appendix A.7, we discuss the types of abrogation in frivolous claims
where the abrogating text is not a Quranic verse, such as abrogating a verse

8. WEAKER CLAIMS 8.3. FRIVOLOUS CLAIMS

by a Prophetic narration (covers the claims against verses 2:173, 2:180, 2:222,
3:41, 4:11-12, 4:19, 4:24, 4:101, 5:6, 5:38, 6:145, 12:109, 19:26, 21:78-79, 24:2,
31:14, 33:4-5, 38:33, and 65:6), a narration of others (covers the claim against
verse 2:229), unanimity (covers the claims against verses 60:12 and 65:2) or
analysis (covers the claim against verse 38:44).

Two claims, that verses 52:48 and 73:1-4 were abrogated by the regular
prayers, are vague in specifying the abrogating text. Presumably, that refers
to the sunna (Prophetic traditions) which detailed the regular prayers.

We now tabulate all the weak claims mentioned in this chapter and the
reason they are weak. We will refer to claims where the abrogating text is
outside the Quran as extraneous. If there are multiple refutations, we will
mention all of them.

Abbreviations:

A: Analysis abrogating a verse

ex: Exception

N: A narration abrogating a verse

N/A: No abrogating text or practice mentioned
N/C: No conflict

N/R: No reason stated

P: A Prophetic narration abrogating a verse

S: sunna (Prophetic traditions) abrogating a verse
self: Self abrogation

sp: Specification

U: Unanimity abrogating a verse

[Claimed abrogated] [By] [Refutation]
2:3 9:60 Elaboration
2:104 Not mentioned Frivolous: N/A
2:115 2:150 Frivolous: N/R
2:158 2:130 Frivolous: N/R
2:159 2:160 Elaboration: ex
2:173 Prophetic Narration 1. Elaboration: ex
2. Extraneous: P
2:178 17:33 Frivolous: N/R
2:180 Prophetic Narration Extraneous: P
2:187 2:222 Frivolous: N/R
2:191 2:191 Frivolous: self
2:191 2:193 Frivolous: self
2:194 17:33 Frivolous: N/R
2:196 2:196 Frivolous: self
2:216 2:286 Elaboration: sp
2:216 9:122 Elaboration: sp

8. WEAKER CLAIMS

8.3. FRIVOLOUS CLAIMS

[Claimed abrogated]

2:217
2:219
2:219
2:221
2:222
2:228
2:228
2:228
2:229
2:229

2:229

2:229
2:229
2:233
2:235
2:236
2:240
2:256
2:282
2:282
2:284
2:286
3:20

[By]

Prophetic Narration
2:229-230

33:49

65:4

2:229

4:4

4:20

65:1
Narration
2:233
2:235
2:237
4:12

9:73
2:282
2:283
Prophetic Narration
2:185
16:125
sunna
2:160
3:89

Prophetic Narration
4:18
4:19

[Refutation]

Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Elaboration: ex
Extraneous: P

Frivolous: N/C
Elaboration: sp
Elaboration: sp
Frivolous: self

1. Elaboration: ex

2. Frivolous: N/C
1. Sameness

2. Elaboration: ex

Frivolous: N/C
Extraneous: N
Frivolous: self
Frivolous: self
Elaboration
Frivolous: N/R
Frivolous: N/R
Frivolous: self
Elaboration
Extraneous: P
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Extraneous: S$
Elaboration: ex
Elaboration: ex
Frivolous: self
Facts
Facts
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Elaboration: sp
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Extraneous: P
Elaboration: ex
Frivolous: self

8. WEAKER CLAIMS

8.3. FRIVOLOUS CLAIMS

[Claimed abrogated]

4:19
4:22
4:23
4:24
4:24
4:24
4:24
4:25
4:29
4:29
4:64
4:71
4:90
4:91
4:101

4:145
5:2
5:5
5:6
5:13
5:13
5:33
5:38

5:42
5:95
5:105
5:106-108
6:15
6:66-67
6:68-69
6:141
6:145
6:152
7:199
8:15-16
8:33
8:38
8:61
8:67
9:2

9:5

[By]

Prophetic Narration
4:22

4:23

2:228

23:5-7

65:1

Prophetic Narration
4:25

4:29

24:61

9:80

9:91

9:1-11

2:191

Prophetic Narration

4:146

9:17

6:121

Prophetic Narration
8:58

9:29

5:34

Prophetic Narration

5:49
5:96
5:105
65:2
48:2
9:36
4:140
9:60
Prophetic Narration
2:220
9:60
8:66
8:34
8:39-40
9:29
A4T:4
8:58
9:29

[Refutation]

Extraneous: P
Frivolous: self
Frivolous: self
Elaboration: sp
Elaboration: sp
Frivolous: N/C
Extraneous: P
Frivolous: self
Frivolous: self
Elaboration: sp
Frivolous: N/C
Elaboration: sp
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C

1. Extraneous: P
2. Frivolous: N/C
Elaboration: ex
Frivolous: N/R
Elaboration: ex
Extraneous: P
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/R
Elaboration: ex
1. Elaboration: ex
2. Extraneous: P
Elaboration: sp
Elaboration: ex
Frivolous: self
Frivolous: N/C
Contingency
Frivolous: N/R
Frivolous: N/C
Elaboration: sp
Extraneous: P
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Facts
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Elaboration: sp
Frivolous: N/C

8. WEAKER CLAIMS

8.3. FRIVOLOUS CLAIMS

[Claimed abrogated]

9:5
9:34
9:34
9:39
9:39
9:39
9:41
9:41
9:41
9:43-45
9:80
9:80
9:97-98
9:103
9:120
9:123
10:15
11:15
12:109
12:109
13:6
14:34
16:67
16:91
16:106
16:106
16:106
17:24
17:34
17:34
17:35
17:110
17:110
18:29
18:29
19:26
19:59
19:71
20:114
21:78-79
21:98-100
22:28
22:30

[By]

47:4
9:60
9:103
48:17
9:91
9:122
48:17
9:91
9:122
24:62
9:84
63:6
9:99
9:84
9:122
9:36
48:2
17:18
87:6
Prophetic Narration
4:48
16:18
5:90
5:89
4:48
16:110
16:106
9:113
2:220
3:77
83:1
7:205
15:94
76:30
81:29
Prophetic Narration
19:60
19:72
87:6
sunna
21:101-103
Not mentioned
5:3

[Refutation]

Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Elaboration: ex
Elaboration: ex
Elaboration: ex
Elaboration: ex
Elaboration: ex
Elaboration: ex
Elaboration: sp
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Facts
Elaboration: ex
Elaboration: ex
Frivolous: N/C
Contingency
Facts
Frivolous: N/R
Extraneous: P
Facts
Frivolous: N/R
Facts
Elaboration: sp
Elaboration: ex
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: self
Elaboration: sp
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Elaboration: sp
Elaboration: sp
Extraneous: P
Elaboration: ex
Facts
Frivolous: N/C
Extraneous: S
Facts
Frivolous: N/A
Elaboration: ex

8. WEAKER CLAIMS

8.3. FRIVOLOUS CLAIMS

[Claimed abrogated]

22:39
22:52
22:78
22:78
23:96
24:2
24:2
24:3
24:4
24:4
24:4
24:6
24:27
24:31
24:31
24:32
24:58
24:58
24:61
25:68-69
25:68-70
25:68-70
26:224
29:46
31:14
33:4-5
33:49
33:51
33:52
37:102
38:33
38:33
38:44
39:3
39:13
39:53
40:77
42:5
42:20
42:23
42:40
42:39-42
42:49

[By]

39:22

87:6

2:286

64:16

Not mentioned
4:25

Prophetic Narration
24:32

24:5

24:6

24:7

24:7,9

24:29

24:60

24:31

24:3

24:59

Not mentioned
4:29

25:70

4:48

4:93

26:227

9:29

Prophetic Narration
Prophetic Narration
2:237

33:50

33:50

32:107

sunna
Narration
Analysis

22:39

48:2

Not mentioned
40:77

40:7

17:18

34:47

42:40

42:43

23:96

[Refutation]

Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Elaboration: sp
Elaboration: sp
Frivolous: N/A
Frivolous: N/C
Extraneous: P
Frivolous: N/C
Elaboration: ex
Elaboration: sp
Frivolous: N/C
Elaboration: sp
Elaboration: sp
Elaboration: ex
Frivolous: self
Frivolous: N/C
Elaboration: sp
Frivolous: N/A
Frivolous: N/C
Elaboration: ex
Facts

Facts
Elaboration: ex
Elaboration: sp
Extraneous: P
Extraneous: P
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C
Facts
Extraneous: 5
Extraneous: N
Extraneous: a
Frivolous: N/R
Contingency
Frivolous: N/A
Frivolous: self
Facts
Facts
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: self
Frivolous: N/C
Frivolous: N/C

8. WEAKER CLAIMS 8.3. FRIVOLOUS CLAIMS

[Claimed abrogated] [By] [Refutation]
42:42 41:34 Frivolous: N/C
46:9 33:47 Frivolous: N/C
46:9 48:2 Frivolous: N/C
46:9 48:5 Frivolous: N/C
AT:4 8:57 Frivolous: N/C
47:36 9:60 Frivolous: N/C
47:36 47:37 Frivolous: N/C
47:36-37 47:38 Frivolous: N/C
51:19 9:60 Frivolous: N/C
51:19 9:103 Frivolous: N/C
51:54 51:55 Frivolous: N/C
52:48 Regular prayers 1. Frivolous: N/C
2. Elaboration
53:39 52:21 Frivolous: N/C
56:13-14 56:39-40 Frivolous: N/C
59:3 9:29 Facts
60:8 9:1-11 Frivolous: N/C
60:11 9:1 Frivolous: N/C
60:11 Ssunna Frivolous: S
60:12 Unanimity Extraneous: U
60:39 52:21 Frivolous: N/C
63:10 9:60 Frivolous: N/C
65:2 Unanimity Extraneous: U
65:6 Prophetic Narration 1. Elaboration: ex
2. Extraneous: P
67:16 54:46 Frivolous: N/C
70:24-25 9:60 Frivolous: N/C
73:1-2 73:3 Frivolous: N/C
73:1-4 Regular prayer Elaboration
73:3 73:4 Frivolous: N/C
73:4 20:2 Frivolous: N/R
73:5 4:28 Frivolous: N/R
73:19 76:30 Frivolous: N/C
75:16 87:6 Frivolous: N/C
76:26 17:79 Frivolous: N/R
76:29 76:30 Frivolous: N/C
80:12 76:30 Frivolous: N/C
80:12 81:29 Frivolous: N/C
81:28 76:30 Frivolous: N/C
81:28 81:29 Frivolous: N/C
87:6 87:7 Elaboration: ex
87:14 9:60 Frivolous: N/R
88:22 9:73 Frivolous: N/C

8. WEAKER CLAIMS 8.3. FRIVOLOUS CLAIMS

[Claimed abrogated] [By] [Refutation]

94:7 Not mentioned Frivolous: N/A

103:2 103:3 1. Elaboration: ex
2. Facts

107:7 Not mentioned Frivolous: N/A

These are more than 200 weak claims, in addition to 160 "sword verse"
claims which were refuted in §6.2. Together, they constitute the overwhelming
majority of the 432 abrogation claims in the literature we surveyed. Appendix
A.2 has pointers to all of them.

an
Having refuted all individual abrogation claims in this part of the book, we
are now in a position to debate the Abrogation Doctrine itself. We will discuss

Quranic evidence and other evidence for and against the doctrine, then reflect
on how the doctrine survived over the centuries with widespread support.

Part III

The Doctrine

ie Part Il, we refuted all the abrogation claims that we found
in the literature. What does that do to the Abrogation Doc-
trine as a whole? We answer this question in detail in this part
of the book.

To do this, we debate the case for the doctrine in Chapters 9

and 10, and present the case against it in Chapter 11. After
that, we reflect on some pertinent issues in Chapter 12; how
the abrogation doctrine was formed in the first place, how it
was sustained over the centuries, how the doctrine affected
Muslims in the past, and how its refutation might affect them
in the future.

Chapter 9

Quranic Evidence

Outside of individual abrogation claims, which have been addressed in detail
in Part II, the main body of evidence used to support the Abrogation Doc-
trine comes from statements in the Quran itself. There are Quranic passages
that are seen as supporting or even establishing the doctrine. The two main
passages are the abrogation verse 2:106 which we have already seen, and the
'substitution verse' 16:101 which we will present shortly. There are other pas-
sages that are seen by some as further evidence for the doctrine, which we will
also discuss.

Having refuted the individual abrogation claims, a question naturally arises:
Why would these Quranic passages be there if the Abrogation Doctrine did not
hold? Scholars answered this question by presenting different interpretations
of these passages that we will discuss in detail.

It is worth reiterating that the case against the Abrogation Doctrine has
already been made since the refutation of all abrogation claims renders the
doctrine moot. This chapter is only meant to allay concerns that this outcome
might contradict what the Quran says. There is no such contradiction.

9.1 The Passages

The two main Quranic passages that are used as evidence for the Abrogation
Doctrine are the abrogation verse 2:106 and the substitution verse 16:101.
These two Quranic passages! are:

lIn this chapter, we refer to 2:106 and 16:101 as passages or just by their numbers in
order to avoid confusion with verses that are themselves the object of abrogation.

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.1. THE PASSAGES

21 (2:106] Whatever verse We may abrogate or cause to be forgotten,
We bring better than it or similar to it. Did you not know that God
is quite capable of everything?

which is the abrogation verse that we have discussed before, and:

gL 8 <8

be ei 3 He Ly cle! 4 Sly a) GBS KTS ly
IV: oul € G25 Y- ai

[16:101] And when We have substituted a verse in the place of

another verse - and God knows best what He sends down - they would
say: you are but a pretender. Rather, most of them do not know.

which we will refer to as the substitution verse.

These two passages are by far the most cited as Quranic evidence that ab-
rogation has occurred. Almost all pro-abrogation scholars take these passages
as evidence for the Abrogation Doctrine, not just for abrogation in some form
such as between scriptures for example. What is abrogated or substituted per
2:106 or 16:101 is interpreted as a verse in the Quranic script whose ruling has
been annulled and replaced by another ruling. A full discussion of 2:106 and
16:101 will be presented later in this chapter after some of the key points in
their interpretation are carefully examined in the next two sections.

There are three other passages that are sometimes cited in pro-abrogation
literature. To a lesser extent, some scholars consider them as evidence for the
Abrogation Doctrine. These passages are

[ra ac J € CES 4 Al sikes Ey BUG Ye Jil oS
[13:39] God erases what He wills and confirms [what He wills], and

with Him is the Origin of the Book.

which is discussed in §9.6 along with:

( is A gs 8 AG] @ ow SG OE y
IVA: JeVU
[87:6-7] We will make you recite such that you do not forget -

except what God willed. Verily, He knows what is manifest and what
hides out.

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.2. CIRCUMSTANCES OF REVELATION

The next passage? is mentioned in the abrogation literature mainly because
it contains the Arabic word naskh, but it is hardly used as evidence for the
Abrogation Doctrine per se. We will discuss it in §11.4.

3 ue gil gs Le 5 dos Se ONS Go he
CESS Ole Gils ssT hl ten Oe) geaine a

[22:52] And never did We send before you a messenger or prophet
except that when he recited, Satan cast into his recitation. But God
promptly abrogates what Satan casts; then God firms His verses. And
God is much Knowing, very Wise.

Our main focus here is the abrogation verse 2:106 and the substitution
verse 16:101. Before we address the full interpretation of these two passages,
we are going to look at critical aspects for their interpretation, namely the
circumstances of their revelation and a key word that they both use. We
are going to address the circumstances of revelation in the next section and
then address the key word aaya (4!) in the section after that. Once these two
aspects are clarified, we will be ready to delve into the detailed interpretation
of the two passages in the two sections that follow.

A word about organization in this chapter, which is perhaps the most tech-
nical chapter of the book given the precision needed for its subject. Through-
out the next two sections, there will be points and counterpoints about specific
details. We will highlight these points and counterpoints with labels such as
[Point A] and [Response to A] in order to have a structured discussion. The
point and the response to it (A designates end of response) may not be con-
tiguous in the text since the logical flow may necessitate further information
and analysis before a response can be properly articulated.

9.2 Circumstances of Revelation

A frequently cited basis for the pro-abrogation interpretation of 2:106 and
16:101 is the circumstances of their revelation.* The wording of these two
passages can bear more than one interpretation, and the circumstances of rev-
elation tilt the balance in favor of one interpretation over the others. An ex-
ample of such effect can be seen in Farghali [136], a staunch pro-abrogation
scholar who conceded that 2:106 could be interpreted in other ways, then

Different translations of this passage are based on different understandings of a key
word.

3Referred to in Arabic as 'events leading to the revelation' (Sal ola). The word lal?
is commonly used to mean 'reasons'.

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.2. CIRCUMSTANCES OF REVELATION

specifically cited the circumstances of revelation saying that they make the
pro-abrogation interpretation the correct one.

The role of the circumstances of revelation in interpreting the Quran is not
to be underestimated. The author of the foremost book on the compilation
of these circumstances asserts that they should be given the utmost attention
"because of the inability to know the interpretation of a verse and what it aims
at without ascertaining its story and accounting for its revelation." (Al-Wahidi
[116]). With that in mind, let us look at the circumstances of revelation that
he reports for 2:106 and 16:101 and how they relate to the pro-abrogation
interpretation of these two passages.

[Point A] Al-Wahidi [116] gives the following account of the cir-
cumstances of revelation of 2:106: The polytheists said "Don't you
see that Muhammad orders his companions to do something then
orders them not to do it and do something different instead, and
says something today and takes it back tomorrow?! This Quran
is but the words of Muhammad that he says on his own, and it
contradicts itself."

He also gives the following account of the circumstances of revela-
tion of 16:101: The polytheists said "Muhammad is surely making
fun of his companions; he orders them to do something today and
orders them not to do it tomorrow, or brings them what is easier on
them. He is but a pretender saying things on his own." (Al-Wahidi
(116]).

These circumstances support the interpretation of the two passages
as evidence for the Abrogation Doctrine.

Before we respond to this point, we note the similarity between the two sets
of circumstances even though 2:106 and 16:101 were revealed at two different
times in two different cities.* In fact, in the section about 2:106, Al-Wahidi fol-
lows the circumstances of revelation by saying that God then revealed 16:101,
even before he says "and also 2:106." He is not alone in discussing the circum-
stances of the revelation of both passages together. This is the reason we are
addressing this common issue here rather than in the detailed interpretation
of each of the two passages later in the chapter.

[Response to A] The main issue here is the authenticity of the quoted
statements in Point A. Circumstances of revelation happen at the time of
revelation, so the persons who can make authoritative statements about them

4Scholars agree that 16:101 was revealed in the Meccan era while 2:106 was revealed in
the Medinite era. Some have remarked that mentioning 'polytheists' in the circumstances
of revelation of 2:106 is suspect since polytheists are associated with Mecca, not Medina.

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.2. CIRCUMSTANCES OF REVELATION

are those who were there at the time. Al-Wahidi [116] himself stated that
"it is not allowed to talk about the circumstances of revelation except by
narrating and hearing from those who witnessed the revelation and ascertained
the circumstances" (_hys)| \tals -pa).

So what was the source of the statements of Point A? Al-Wahidi attributed
his account of the circumstances of revelation of 2:106 to what 'the exegetes'
said, without providing more specifics. The verifier of Al-Wahidi's book noted
that this account is without sourcing.® The verifier made a similar comment
that Al-Wahidi's account of the circumstances of revelation of 16:101 is also
without sourcing. Al-Wahidi does not mention the exegetes in the 16:101
section as he did in the 2:106 section. He just quotes the statement without
any attribution.

The total absence of a first-hand source for these statements raises legiti-
mate concerns about their origin. Since Al-Wahidi attributed the first state-
ment to the exegetes, we checked books of exegesis that predated him. Some
of them did include similar statements, also unattributed. Most notably, Al-
Thaalabi [110] who was Al-Wahidi's teacher on the subject of exegesis used the
same statement about the circumstances of revelation of 2:106 that Al-Wahidi
used, and a similar statement about 16:101 (Al-Thaalabi [110]), both without
attribution.

To add to the uncertainty caused by this lack of attribution, the most
notable exegete of that era who predated Al-Wahidi by more than a century
did not include these statements at all. Al-Tabari [107] wrote a lengthy section
about the interpretation of 2:106, but he did not mention any version of Al-
Wahidi's accounts. He did not mention any in his interpretation of 16:101
either (Al-Tabari [107]). It is worth noting that Al-Tabari had regular sections
called 'Mention of who said that' after he made a statement, so he tended to
include only the statements that he would attribute to a source.

Centuries after Al-Wahidi, famous exegete Ibn Kathir did not mention any
version of Al-Wahidi's accounts either (Ibn Kathir [163] for 2:106 and Ibn
Kathir [163] for 16:101). Similar to Al-Tabari, Ibn Kathir tended to state
the chain of narration of the quotes that he included. These two exegetes are
among the most respected in the history of Quranic exegesis.

Many other exegetes who came after Al-Wahidi did mention a variation of
his statements, but still without attribution, and some of them cited Al-Wahidi
when they did. Among those exegetes were Al-Zamakhshari [124], Al-Baghawi
[23], Al-Qurtubi [80], Al-Nasafi [72], Al-Khazen [62], and Al-Ghornati [47].

Without attribution, the statements about the circumstances of revelation
in Point A cannot be considered valid if we apply the criterion set forth by the
scholar who himself presented those statements. Let us reiterate Al-Wahidi's

5The Arabic word used is (422) which linguistically means 'backing'.

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.2. CIRCUMSTANCES OF REVELATION

criterion: "it is not allowed to talk about the circumstances of revelation
except by narrating and hearing from those who witnessed the revelation and
ascertained the circumstances." The statements in Point A do not have such
'narrating and hearing' at all.

It is precisely these statements about the circumstances of revelation that
Farghali [136] invokes when he chooses the pro-abrogation interpretation of
2:106. It is not clear how many other scholars have also based their pro-
abrogation interpretation, at least in part, on these unattributed statements.
In the next point, we discuss an attribution that some have suggested.

[Point B] In spite of the majority of exegetes mentioning these
circumstances of revelation without attribution, there are some
who attributed them to Ibn Abbas (RA), e.g., Al-Razi [83], Ibn Adel
[143], and Ibn Ashur [153], among others. They cited variations of
the following narration:

Ibn Abbas (RA) said "When a verse was revealed that had hardship,
then a more lenient verse was revealed, the polytheists of Quraish®
would say: By God, Muhammad is making fun of his companions;
today he orders something and tomorrow he forbids it; he just
makes up these things on his own."

A version of this narration that Al-Samarqandi [86] included men-
tions abrogation explicitly: "so God Almighty abrogates this hard-
ship and brings what is more lenient" (Gs).

It should be noted that the exegetes mentioned this narration in connection
with 16:101, not 2:106. Al-Razi [83], Ibn Adel [143], and Ibn Ashur [153]
included similar circumstances of revelation for 2:106 but without attribution,
while Al-Samarqandi [86] did not include any.

[Response to B] It is true that these exegetes attributed this narration
about the circumstances of revelation of 16:101 to Ibn Abbas (RA). However,
this narration is patently inauthentic. Let us elaborate.

Pro-abrogation scholar Zeid [206] was blunt in rejecting the authenticity
of this narration. He asks the question "do the exegetes have evidence that
would make us accept the attribution of this story to Ibn Abbas?" He laments
those who attributed it to Ibn Abbas (RA) without a chain of narration, then
goes into a list of prominent books that do not mention that narration at all.
Another thorough search was conducted by Al-Mazini [70] who wrote a doc-
toral dissertation on the subject of circumstances of revelation. He laments

SQuraish was the prominent tribe in Mecca at the time of the Prophet (PBUH).

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.2. CIRCUMSTANCES OF REVELATION

"the prevalence of weak narrations in the books of exegesis" and eliminates all
accounts of the circumstances of revelation of 2:106 and 16:101.

We independently verified that this narration is not authentic by conduct-
ing our own search within recognized scholarly references that compile and
rate different narrations. To do this, we employed several searches based on
different combinations of keywords that appear in the narration. We searched
through the narration encyclopedia published by Al-Dorar Al-Saniyya [89] and
several other online databases of narrations, as well as general searches of the
open literature. Not a single reference had any version of this narration. No-
tice that these references also include narrations that are rated 'weak' (La.2)
or 'unrecognized' (534). Nonetheless, this narration did not even make it to
these rating classifications. It is simply non-existent in the narration refer-
ences.

It should not come as a surprise that this narration is not authentic. Two
other troubling aspects about it raise doubts independently of the lack of
a chain of narration:

1. The revelation of 16:101 happened in Mecca before the first hijri year,
so Ibn Abbas (RA) was at most 3 years old at the time of its revelation.

2. Many scholars, e.g., pro-abrogation scholar Hasaballah [139], point out
that there were no changes in Quranic rulings during the Meccan era
that would give reason to the polytheists to make the accusation quoted
in the narration.' They cite another narration attributed to Ibn Abbas
(RA), and this one is included in narration books, that says that the first
case of abrogation in the Quran was the change of the qibla (direction of
the prayers).° There is no doubt that this event happened in Medina,°®
ie., after 16:101 was revealed.

Therefore, the inescapable conclusion here is that the narration in Point B
is inauthentic.

The other incidents in the literature that mention circumstances of reve-
lation of 2:106 or 16:101 have been discredited. We include these incidents in
side note 28 for completeness. We conclude that there is no authentic version
of the circumstances of revelation of 2:106 or 16:101 that would support any
particular interpretation, including the pro-abrogation interpretation.

'The claim that verses 73:1-4 were abrogated one year after they were revealed would go
against this point. See the refutation of that claim in §5.3.

8See Narration number 1 in Appendix A.3

®Reportedly, it happened 17 months after the Muslims moved to Medina (Al-Nimr [74]).

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.3. THE WORD 'aaya'

9.3. The Word 'aaya'

A key to analyzing the two Quranic passages about abrogation is a word
that appears in both passages. It is the Arabic word aaya (4!), which is
a polyseme.!? It can mean a guiding sign, which is why a verse in scripture
is called aaya. It can also mean a cause for awe, such as a physical miracle
from God. In addition to these linguistic meanings, there are interpretations
of the two passages that do not take the word aaya literally, but treat it as
a metaphor.

The reason this is particularly important is that aaya is the object of
abrogation and substitution in these two Quranic passages that are considered
the main evidence for the Abrogation Doctrine:

Pa
&

Ea is Nah ee SENET EL)
[05,85 € 5.35 sist §

[2:106] Whatever |verse| We may abrogate or cause to be forgot-

ten, We bring better than it or similar to it. Did you not know that
God is quite capable of everything?

and:

3 2,8
A \

Js As eth IG dg G Set ais [BT] ake ST by p

[ys : jou € 3,05 9: a8'

[16:101] And when We have substituted a verse in the place of

another [verse] - and God knows best what He sends down - they

would say: you are but a pretender. Rather, most of them do not
know.

Therefore, which meaning of aaya applies in these passages determines what
object is being abrogated. Notice that there are additional references in each of
these passages to aaya but in the role of what replaces the abrogated; explicitly
in 16:101 ("substituted a |verse| in the place of another verse"), and implicitly
in 2:106 ("We bring better than it or |similar to it"). We focus here on the
two instances where aaya is the object of abrogation and substitution since
the critical issue in the Abrogation Doctrine is what is abrogated rather than
what replaces it.

Since the meaning of aaya is key to interpreting 2:106 and 16:101, we are
going to spend some time analyzing the alternative meanings of the word as
it appears in these passages and the evidence for and against each meaning.

10This means that it has more than one meaning, as detailed in Al-Zarkashi [125].

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.3. THE WORD 'aaya'

One at a time, and in detail, we will address the meanings that are widely
recognized in the literature. This analysis will impact the evidentiary value
that the two Quranic passages provide for the Abrogation Doctrine.

9.3.1 Physical Miracle?

If the word aaya in 2:106 and 16:101 signifies a physical miracle, rather than
a verse, that would clearly alter the pro-abrogation interpretation of these
passages since aaya is the object of abrogation and substitution. Some scholars
we will cite support this view, but the majority do not. Let us now mention
the points in support of interpreting aaya as miracle.

[Point C] The ending of 2:106 "Did you not know that God is
quite capable of everything?" is befitting of the 'miracle' interpre-
tation of aaya since miracles attest to God's capability, whereas
an interpretation of aaya as a verse that came to replace another
would have likely called for an ending that mentions God's wisdom
instead.

This point is attributed to Muhammad Abduh. It was presented by Rida
[193] and was cited by Al-Zalmi [123] who agrees with the point. Abu-Elela
[4] makes the same point, apparently independently. Ataya [132], who agrees
with the premise that aaya means miracle here, argues that capability includes
wisdom. So, he seems unconvinced of the reasoning in this point.

[Point D| In a verse that comes shortly after 2:106, there is
another reference to miracles that provides contextual support for
the interpretation of aaya as miracle in 2:106. God says:

@ a
oe He

Sp St JS ENS IES OF Sst ol
€ Soill she Je A ol eI JS 5 JS
[\:A: 3 al]

[2:108] Or do you intend to ask your Messenger as
Moses was asked before? And whoever substitutes dis-

belief for faith has certainly strayed from the soundness of
the way.

vr

Why is this considered a reference to miracles? It is because of
other passages in the Quran where Moses (PBUH) was asked by the
Israelites (verse 4:153) and by the folk of Pharaoh (verse 7:106) to
produce miracles.

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.3. THE WORD 'aaya'

This point is also attributed to Abduh according to Rida [193]. M. Al-
Ghazali [46] agrees with the point, and so does Al-Zalmi [123]. Hasaballah
[139] also agrees with this point but gives a different angle on Abduh's inter-
pretation.

What is the response then to the above points made in support of the
'miracle' interpretation? There are compelling responses.

[Response to C] The ending of 2:106 about God's capability fits the earlier
part where God says "We bring better than it" as He states what He would
do if He abrogated a verse. The notion that something would be better than
a divine verse, even another divine verse, proved difficult for many to conceive.
It is therefore befitting that God would remind His creatures that He is capable
of anything, in the context of bringing a verse that is better than another.

This response derives from more than one source. Al-Razi [83] comments
on the ending of 2:106 as "signifying that who brings that good is the one
who is special in the capability over all good, and that is God Almighty."
Al-Zamakhshari [124] comments on this ending by saying "He is capable of
[bringing] good, and what is better than it, and what is similar to it in good-
ness." Al-Arid [20] says "replacing a verse with another is not lesser than
replacing a miracle with another."

The issue of a verse being better than another verse will be addressed again
when we discuss another angle on the interpretation of aaya in §9.3.3.

[Response to D] Is it miracles that God is referring to when He mentions
what Moses (PBUH) was asked in 2:108? There is evidence that it is not. An-
other passage in the Quran gives a compelling alternative; what was asked for
was an idol to worship, not a physical miracle:

Nb ed elicl Le Sst a2 035 Jel Sl sac f5lo) se Uigles }
[Wwa: Sed Gla 035 2225) JU Ag TUS Ladi yay

[7:138] And We took the Children of Israel across the sea; then
they came upon a folk consecrating to idols of theirs. They said, "O
Moses, make for us a god just as they have gods." He said, "Indeed,
you are a folk behaving ignorantly."

Why is this a compelling alternative? Because verse 2:108 that refers to what
was asked of Moses (PBUH) goes on to say "And whoever substitutes disbelief for
faith has certainly strayed from the soundness of the way" and that fits what
Moses was asked for in 7:138, namely idols to worship. The context of 2:108
further reinforces this, since the verse just before it says:

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.3. THE WORD 'aaya'

[Vv 5 alld ed V5 5 Se sl ond Ge ped. }

[2:107] ... you have not besides God any protector or any helper.

thus the idols that Moses was asked for won't protect or help, and the verse
just after it says:

(GS pEesteg 285 be pat Ss I LUSH a ye 08'S
[v4 3 NN]
(2:109] Many of the people of the Scripture wish they could turn
you back to disbelief after you have believed ...

The context befits the issue of switching from worshiping God to worshiping
idols, as 2:108 is interpreted here. Therefore, the reasoning in point D that
interpreted 2:108 as supportive of the "miracle" interpretation of aaya in 2:106
is doubtful.

In addition to these responses, there is a counterargument against the
interpretation of aaya in 2:106 and 16:101 as miracle, in favor of the more
conventional interpretation as verse. In 2:106, aaya is mentioned as the object
of abrogation (Whatever verse We may abrogate or cause to be forgotten). It is
difficult to conceive of a miracle being abrogated. Forgotten, yes; substituted,
yes; but not abrogated.

It is not impossible to interpret abrogation in a way that would apply
to miracles as well, but that would be more labored than the conventional
interpretation. Similarly, the mention of aaya in 16:101 is followed in 16:102
by relating it to the delivery of the Quran to the Prophet (PBUH) by Archangel
Gabriel. This makes aaya more logically interpreted as verse rather than
a physical miracle.

Another angle is reported by Al-Banna [29] who tallied the occurrences of
the word aaya in the Quran. He argued that the word is always used in the
Quran in the sense of a guiding sign or physical miracle, not in the sense of
verse. He concludes that this makes it more likely that aaya in 2:106 does not
mean verse either. While this suggests likelihood, the evidence is compromised
by the fact that some of the instances in his tally can be interpreted as verse.

What is the conclusion about interpreting aaya as physical miracle in 2:106
and 16:101? This interpretation which was spearheaded by Abduh would sup-
port the anti-abrogation view. However, we have to agree with the assessment
that Zeid [206] made of this interpretation as he stated "the phenomena that
he considered as evidence to support it are not sufficient in our view to consider
it the correct interpretation".

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.3. THE WORD 'aaya'

9.3.2. Previous Scripture?

The second alternative meaning of aaya in 2:106 and 16:101 is related to the
majority view that what is abrogated or substituted is indeed a verse, except
for a key difference: It is not a Quranic verse but a verse that belongs to
previous scripture such as the Torah or the Gospel. Is it possible that aaya
could mean a verse in previous scripture?!! More scholars believe in the
scripture interpretation than those who believe in the 'miracle' interpretation

we have just discussed.

Even some pro-abrogation scholars accepted the scripture interpretation,
at least as a possibility. For example, Ibn Kathir [163] elaborated on that
interpretation after focusing on the abrogation of Quranic verses. Al-Khazen
[62] mentioned it as one of three interpretations, and then he chose another
one of the three as his preferred interpretation. Al-Shaarawi [92] discussed the
abrogation of previous divine messages by the Quran in his interpretation of
2:106 then moved to the abrogation of Quranic verses.

Notice that we are not addressing the full interpretation of 2:106 and 16:101
yet, but just the question of whether the word aaya is legitimately used in
Arabic to refer to previous scripture. Let us look at the points that some
scholars raised against this possibility and the response to their points.

[Point E] The word aaya, when it signifies verse, has not been
formally used in Arabic to refer to a verse in previous scripture, so
there is no basis for claiming that it could mean that in 2:106 and
16:101.

[Response to E] This is not true. The word aaya, when it means verse, is not
restricted to verses of the Quran but is formally used for verses in previous
scripture as well. There are instances of such use in the Quran itself. For
example, the following Quranic passage talks about verses from all scripture,
not just from the Quran:

BK os Bl 2a & Oped eae 1 . Zn536 | Go e193)
[ros Led p54 ob Y 5 aale Gis WG clot,
[7:35] O children of Adam, if there should come to you messengers

from you telling you My [werses), then whoever watches out [for God]
and does right - there shall be no fear upon them, nor shall they grieve.

11Unlike the English word 'verse' which is used for all scripture and even for poems, the
word aaya is more specific. For instance, it is never used for poems; another word bayt is
used in that case. This leads to the question of whether aaya is limited to the Quran or
covers previous scripture as well.

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.3. THE WORD 'aaya'

Indeed, this is how major exegetes interpret the passage:

1. Al-Tabari [107] interprets this passage as saying that messengers of God
from among you and from your groups and your tribes "recite for you
the verses of My book" (_g45 ot! rile Osx). Which book? Since only
one messenger of God recited the Quran, namely Muhammad (PBuhH), the
rest of the messengers referred to in the passage must be reciting other
scripture, and what they are reciting is referred to as aaya.

2. Rida [193] points out that this passage is explicit in talking about all
messengers and addressing all people, and interprets the words of the
passage as saying "messengers from among your mankind reciting to
you My verses that He revealed to them" (46 tsi a) al re gly).
This leaves no doubt that he interprets aaya as referring to a verse in
any divine scripture, not just the Quran.

3. AIRA [131], which is co-authored by more than 10 scholars, interprets
the verb cpeads which was translated in the above Quranic passage to
'telling', and whose object is aaya, as meaning 'reciting' (glx). It goes
on to say that the passage addresses "every nation of the nations of the
messengers, not particular to the nation of Muhammad (PBUh)."

Notice that the mere fact that these scholars are referring to a verse in previ-
ous scripture as aaya, even if others disagree with their interpretation of this
particular Quranic passage, is in and of itself evidence that this meaning is
legitimate in Arabic. These are authoritative Arabic speakers, in addition to
being scholars, and the question we are asking here is linguistic at heart.

Independently of this Quranic passage, other scholars have used the word
aaya to refer to verses in previous scripture in their writings. In his commen-
tary on 2:106, Al-Qasimi [77] interprets that God is saying "as Our abrogation
of the verses of the Torah by the verses of the Quran" using the plural of aaya
(gl BI ub 3 gl OLY Less). Commenting on another passage in the Quran,
Al-Baghawi [23] mentions "verses of the Torah and the Gospel" using the
same word (fo Yly aly! ob!). Similarly, Al-Khazen [62] mentions "verse in
the Torah" using the word aaya (8l)5| (3 41) when he comments on a third
passage.

We note that the use of aaya to mean verse in reference to the Torah or to
the Gospel is commonplace in contemporary Arabic. We included the above
evidence in order to leave no doubt that such use is linguistically authentic.

Given the abundant evidence that aaya can refer to a verse in a previous
scripture, what basis did pro-abrogation scholars use for rejecting this inter-
pretation in 2:101 and 16:101? It turns out that they avoided the words "verse

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.3. THE WORD 'aaya'

in a previous scripture" altogether, and argued against the interpretation by
posing the question using different words.

The words they argued that aaya cannot linguistically mean are 'body of
rulings' (4x4). It is certainly true that aaya does not mean 'body of rulings',
but that is irrelevant since the meaning of aaya that is needed for the above
interpretation is 'verse in a previous scripture' and that is a linguistically valid
meaning as we have shown.

Perhaps they based their choice of words on the Abrogation Doctrine's
focus on rulings as opposed to the verses that contain those rulings. When
Al-Asfahani [21] argued in favor of the above interpretation, he used the words
"the bodies of rulings that are in the old books of the Torah and the Gospel"
(hestYly aly) Gye Lay tall CaS eo Bl eleJi) to depict what was abrogated.
When pro-abrogation scholars ae his argument, they also focused on
the 'body of rulings' wording.

[Point F] The word aaya does not signify 'body of rulings' (44,5)
in Arabic. Al-Arid [20] asserts that neither the Arabs nor the
Quran have used aaya to mean 'body of rulings'. In his commen-
tary on 16:101, Zeid [206] asserts that Arabic dictionaries do not
mention 'body of rulings' as one of the meanings of aaya. There-
fore, aaya cannot be interpreted in 2:106 and 16:101 as referring
to the 'body of rulings' in previous scripture.

[Response to F] It is true that aaya does not mean 'body of rulings' (44,4) in
Arabic. However, this does not rule out the 'previous scripture' interpretation
of 2:106 and 16:101. If aaya can linguistically mean a previous scripture or
a verse in it, then abrogating it would abrogate its rulings as well.' The
rulings do not have to be explicitly the object of abrogation from a linguistic
point of view. Zeid himself, who objected in Point E to this linguistic usage,
went on to adopt it as a valid metaphor when he interpreted a reference to
aaya in another Quranic passage (see page 235).

In their objections, neither Al-Arid nor Zeid addressed whether aaya could
otherwise mean a verse in previous scripture. They only talked about the
rulings that the scripture embodies.

Historically, the 'scripture' interpretation of aaya in 2:106 and 16:101 has
posed the most serious challenge to the Abrogation Doctrine. Al-Asfahani,
who was the first known serious dissenter from the doctrine, introduced this

!2See the discussion of "abrogation of recitation but not the ruling" in Appendix A.7. In
the case of previous scripture, it is not recited by Muslims so abrogating it can only mean
abrogating its rulings.

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.3. THE WORD 'aaya'

interpretation as part of his dissent. Many anti-abrogation scholars followed
suit and rejected the doctrine in large part based on this interpretation.

There are also pro-abrogation scholars such as Al-Nimr [74] and Hasaballah
[139] who fully adopted the scripture interpretation. They do not see 2:106
and 16:101 as related to the Abrogation Doctrine even though they accept the
doctrine itself.

9.3.3 Ruling in a Verse?

The last issue about the word aaya in 2:106 and 16:101, and perhaps the most
polarizing, is whether the word refers to a verse proper or can refer to just
the ruling contained in a verse. This is not a linguistic issue; scholars are
not claiming that aaya can linguistically mean ruling in a verse. The issue is
whether it metaphorically means that.

Where does the notion 'ruling in a verse' come from? It originates in the
'abrogation of the ruling but not the recitation' premise of the Abrogation
Doctrine. This leaves the verse itself an integral part of the Quran that we
recite in our worship. The only consequence of abrogation under this premise
is that the mandate to follow the ruling in the verse is gone.

We again emphasize that we are not addressing the full interpretation of
2:106 and 16:101 yet. We are just focusing on the legitimacy of understanding
aaya as 'ruling in a verse', similar to previous discussions about understanding
it as a 'miracle' or 'previous scripture'. Clearly, understanding it as 'ruling' is
crucial to the Abrogation Doctrine. Let us look at the points pro-abrogation
scholars made in support of this understanding.

[Point G]_ It is possible that aaya is used metaphorically in
2:106 and 16:101 to mean the ruling in a verse. The Quran uses
metaphors like that, e.g.,

Jrall pes bleeh ass ae Wb.
[av ss aN] € ... op patoy

[2:93] ... They said, "We heard but disobey." The calf
was absorbed in their hearts because of their disbelief ...

In this passage, the disbelievers took to worshiping a calf, and
that was described by the Quran as "The calf was absorbed in their
hearts" whereas what was absorbed in their hearts is worshiping
the calf.

This example is used as evidence of Quranic metaphors in general, and

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.3. THE WORD 'aaya'

in the context of justifying the 'ruling in a verse' interpretation of 2:106 and
16:101 in particular. Exegete Al-Tabari [107] used this example in his com-
mentary on 2:106.

[Response to G| The example of the calf is self-evident since the calf itself
cannot be 'absorbed in their hearts'. Therefore, interpreting the expression
as a metaphor is a necessity here. There is no such necessity in interpreting
'verse' in 2:106 or 16:101 metaphorically as 'ruling in a verse'.

This response follows an established principle in Quranic exegesis, which is
"taking the absolute of the language" (4sU\ ae) isV)) which means that the
linguistic meaning of the words takes precedence (M. Al-Zahabi [118]). It also
follows a related principle in religious Foundations of Deduction (aésl| Jae!)
called 'Indication by Necessity' (L238!) JY>s), which means that a metaphor
cannot be invoked unless the meaning would not be viable without it (Ibrahim
[178]).

Pro-abrogation scholar Hasaballah [139] specifically rejected the interpre-
tation of aaya as 'ruling in a verse' in 16:101 saying that "those who are
pro-abrogation resorted to it without necessity", appealing to the Indication-
by-Necessity principle.

Al-Tabari [107] did raise the issue of necessity as part of his discussion of
'ruling in a verse' and then proceeded to answer it as follows.

[Point H] There is in fact a necessity to invoke a metaphor.
The word aaya in 2:106, and by extension in 16:101, cannot mean
an actual Quranic verse because of the part that says "We bring

better than it" [\1:3 21] € ae gis pe eG oe ®. No verse can be

better than another in the Quran, as they are all God's words.

The point that no verse in the Quran can be better than another is fre-
quently mentioned by scholars in their commentary on 2:106, e.g., Al-Jassas
[57], Al-Qurtubi [80], Al-Baghawi [23], and Al-Khazen [62].

[Response to H] Human beings should not decide on their own that one
Quranic verse is better than another, and this is perhaps what scholars had in
mind when they made the assertion of Point H. However, there is an abundance
of evidence that a Quranic verse can indeed be better than another in the eyes
of God, as reported to us by the Prophet (PBUH).

One example is when the Prophet (PBUH) answered the question "so which
among what God revealed to you is the greatest?" by identifying it as verse
2:255, the verse that exalts God's stature and His throne (Ibn Hibban [161)).

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.3. THE WORD 'aaya'

In another narration, the Prophet (PBUH) asserts that Quranic Chapter 1 "The
Opener" is the greatest chapter in the Quran (Al-Bukhari [35]). A third
narration spells out the first verse of Chapter 112 that declares the oneness
of God and states that it!' is equivalent to one-third of the Quran (Muslim
[189]).

Some of this and similar evidence is used by A. Al-Ghazali [44] in a short
chapter entitled "How some verses in the Quran can be better than others
even though it is all God's speech" as he challenges those who do not accept
that premise. Ibn Al-Hassar is reported by Ibn Al-Najjar [149] and Al-Suyuti
[100], among others, to wonder how some would reject that premise despite
the available quotes that support it. Ibn Taymia [172] states that '"Saying
that parts of God's speech are better than other parts is what is established
of the predecessors, and it is what the leading jurists of the four schools of
thought and others have settled on." He even cites what 2:106 says about
better verse as supporting evidence.

Verses are not the only instance where God can make preferences that
we, as humans, are not allowed to make. The following Quranic passage that
compares prophets is mentioned by Al-Qurtubi [81]:

[tor all] €.. ors JE ages Was een as SN Gs >

[2:253] Those Messengers - some of them We gave preference over
others ...

The preference here is made by God. We as humans are directed to treat
the prophets as equals. In the following Quranic passage, God describes the
believers as saying

[Ae se yaclll gh) Se asl icy ee .

[2:285] ... we do not differentiate between any of His messengers

As Ibn Kathir [163] phrases it, "the platform of preference is not for you, but
it is for God Almighty." The issue is not the preference itself, but who makes
at.

Therefore, the objection that one verse cannot possibly be better than
another is not valid. God can make that preference, so there is no necessity
to invoke a metaphor as we interpret the 'better verse' part of 2:106.

One final point put forward by those who advocate the 'ruling in a verse'
interpretation:

13This may be pointing to the verse by itself, or to that entire short chapter, as that
chapter is often referred to by the wording of its first verse.

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.3. THE WORD 'aaya'

[Point I| The interpretation of aaya to mean 'ruling in a verse'
in 2:106 is supported by the fact that it is the only interpretation
made by the predecessors.

[Response to I] It is not. Some predecessors did interpret it this way, and
some did not. As Ataya [132] points out, the 'ruling' interpretation of aaya
is traced back to one source, the fellows of Ibn Masoud (not Ibn Masoud (Ra)
himself). The 3 specific chains of attribution of the 'ruling' interpretation
that Zeid [206] lists, all of them identify the original source as the fellows of
Ibn Masoud.!4

The exegesis of Ibn Abbas (RA) does not have the 'ruling' interpretation,
but instead interprets 2:106 as saying "Whatever verse We may substitute"
(Al-Rajjal [82]). Another predecessor of the first hijri century, Mujahid, in-
terpreted 2:106 to mean "Whatever verse We may erase" (Ibn Kathir [163]).
Mujahid was also quoted as reporting the 'ruling' interpretation attributing it
to the fellows of Ibn Masoud (Ibn Kathir {163]), so if he was correctly quoted
he was aware of it.

Another early interpretation does not have 'ruling' either. According to
Ibn Sallam [171], Ataa interpreted 2:106 as referring to copying verses of the
Quran from the Divine source. No mention of 'ruling' there.!°

The exegesis of Al-Tabari is sometimes credited with the propagation of
the 'ruling' interpretation (Ataya [132]). It is the oldest complete exegesis of
the Quran that remained intact, and it had a significant impact on all exegeses
that followed over the centuries. Al-Tabari included the quote of Ibn Abbas
(RA) that did not interpret aaya as 'ruling', but he fully adopted the 'ruling'
interpretation attributed to the fellows of Ibn Masoud as he discussed the
Abrogation Doctrine in detail.

In his own words, Al-Tabari [107] used the objection to 'better verse', which
we discussed extensively in the response to Point H, as the only reason that
he gave for not interpreting aaya as 'verse', hence opening the door for the
metaphoric interpretation as 'ruling'. Therefore, Al-Tabari's stated basis for
not interpreting aaya as verse is something that was debunked by many major
scholars, as we have shown in the response to Point H.

14More details are presented in §10.1
15 All the very early exegeses of the Quran have issues with authenticity (M. Al-Zahabi
[118]). Here, we quoted what has been widely mentioned by the scholars.

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.4. THE ABROGATION VERSE (2:106)

Key Point

y It is up to God to make a verse better than another verse (Ibn
Taymia [172] and A. Al-Ghazali [44]). Therefore, no necessity
exists for interpreting the word aaya (verse) in 2:106 as a metaphor
for 'ruling in a verse', which is the interpretation that gave rise to the
notion of abrogation of the ruling but not the recitation.

We have focused in this section on the key points raised in support, and in
opposition, to different understandings of the word aaya in 2:106 and 16:101.
In the previous section, we discussed key points related to the circumstances
of revelation of these two passages. We will refer back to these points and their
responses as needed when we address the full interpretation of the passages,
which comes in the next two sections.

9.4 The Abrogation Verse (2:106)

We start the detailed interpretation of the Quranic passages!® that are used as
evidence for the Abrogation Doctrine. The first passage is the abrogation verse
2:106 which we discuss here. The other prominent passage, the substitution
verse 16:101, will come next.

Although 2:106 is the cornerstone of the Abrogation Doctrine, there is
a plausible interpretation of this passage that does not support the doctrine
at all. We will present and elaborate this interpretation first. We will then
present legitimate reservations about the pro-abrogation interpretation of the
passage as a rebuttal of that interpretation. The goal here is to show that
there is no contradiction between the refutation of all abrogation claims which
was done in Part II and what 2:106 is saying.

9.4.1 Anti-Abrogation Interpretation

Interpreting 2:106 in a way that does not support the Abrogation Doctrine
is not a novelty. In fact, many pro-abrogation scholars recognized this anti-
abrogation interpretation!' in their writings. For example,

16Recall that we are referring to 2:106 and 16:101 here as 'passages' or just by their num-
bers in order to avoid confusion with 'verses' that are themselves the object of abrogation.

17Recall that we use the expression 'anti-abrogation' for denying that there are abrogated
verses within the Quranic script as the Abrogation Doctrine claims, not for denying other
types of abrogation such as between scriptures.

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.4. THE ABROGATION VERSE (2:106)

1. Al-Khazen [62], Ibn Kathir [163], and Qutb [191] mentioned it as part of
the interpretation, but chose the pro-abrogation interpretation over it.

2. Al-Shaarawi [92] and Ibn Ashur [153] adopted this anti-abrogation in-
terpretation in detail, then added abrogation of verses in the Quranic
script as also falling under the umbrella of 2:106.

3. Hasaballah [139] and Al-Nimr [74] adopted it as the interpretation of
2:106 even though they are pro-abrogation; they just did not consider
2:106 to be part of the evidence for the Abrogation Doctrine.

Let us start. If you look at 2:106 in its context, what it says flows naturally
from the previous verse:

me SBS oS AIG CUS yal yy geese A la}

€ ceolaall Jeni) g5 diss 2185 2 axis, ot dhl CES be 3S ye
[\ro: 3 aN]

[2:105] Neither those who disbelieve from the people of the Scrip-
ture nor the polytheists wish that any good should be sent down to
you [Muslims] from your Lord. But God selects for His mercy whom
He wills, and God is the possessor of great bounty.

What is the 'good' that is sent down to Muslims from their Lord according to
2:105? Almost all exegetes, pro- and anti-abrogation, interpret that to be the
Quranic revelation. Among them are Al-Tabari [107], Al-Baghawi [23], Al-
Zamakhshari [124], Al-Razi [83], Al-Qurtubi [80], Al-Baydawi [31], Al-Nasafi
[72], Al-Khazen [62], Al-Ghornati [47], Ibn Kathir [163], and Al-Maqdesi [68].

It is not surprising that there is such universal agreement about this!®
since the expression 'sent down' used in this verse is the standard expression
that is used in the Quran numerous times to describe the mechanism of divine
revelation to the Prophet (PBUH). It is also logical that those selected by God
to receive His divine revelation are privileged by the honor and trust that God
bestowed upon them, so other groups may develop jealousy and animosity
toward them. This reaction was described in the Quran a few verses earlier
(2:89-91).

18Some accounts of the circumstances of revelation of 2:105 support this interpretation,
but these accounts were not found to be authentic so we did not appeal to them.

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.4. THE ABROGATION VERSE (2:106)

point of interest

There is a prevailing theme that runs through this chapter of the
Quran (Chapter 2, 3,iJ| 3,,.~) about the animosity toward Muslims
in Medina. Chapter 2 is the first chapter in the Quran that was
revealed after Muslims immigrated from Mecca to Medina. As
newcomers, they faced resistance from those who used to have
the upper hand before Muslims arrived. That theme moves to
an emphasis on jealousy and envy from 2:105 to 2:112.

The foremost group that the verse warns against is 'those who disbelieve
from the people of the Scripture'. The group is understood to be the Jews in
Medina who did not accept Muhammad (PBUH) as a messenger of God. They
felt that the privilege of divine revelation that was theirs through the Torah
was being taken away, and they did not like it. God then makes the key
assertion that it is up to Him whom He chooses for such privilege. Up till
this ending of 2:105, the interpretation is straightforward and near-unanimous
among exegetes. In this context, the words of 2:106 follow:

Fas is ab eS obese y ESE)
[0 :3,all € $235 sist §

[2:106] Whatever verse We may abrogate or cause to be forgotten,
We bring better than it or similar to it. Did you not know that God
is quite capable of everything?

What verse (aaya - 4) is the object of abrogation and what is to be brought
to replace it? This is the central issue in the abrogation debate, and it is why
we dedicated an entire section (§9.3) to discuss it in detail. Three alterna-
tive views about what aaya means in 2:106 were analyzed, covering the most
common pro- and anti-abrogation interpretations. The conclusion of §9.3.2 is
that aaya can linguistically refer to previous scripture. This is also what the
flow from 2:105 to 2:106 suggests. It is a seamless narrative as articulated by
pro-abrogation scholar Al-Shaarawi [92] when he addresses the transition from
2:105 to 2:106,

".. People of the Scripture and polytheists do not want good for the Mus-
lims in their religion because they felt that what Muhammad (PBUH) brought in
his time is better than what Moses had brought that survived till the time of
Muhammad (PBUH) and better than what Jesus brought, at the time of Muham-
mad (PBUH). This does not mean that we are trying to minimize what previ-
ous messengers brought, but we emphasize that previous messengers brought
what was best at their time. Every message before the message of Muhammad
(PBUH) came for specific people and specific duration, then a new prophet came
to abrogate what was in the previous message ..." (4#LS| ILS) 3 L om)

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.4. THE ABROGATION VERSE (2:106)

Another pro-abrogation scholar, Ibn Ashur [153] makes a similar comment
about 2:106 based on its context: "The way this verse fits the verses before
it is that the Jews justified not believing in the Prophet (PBUH) by saying'®
'we believe in what was sent down on us' and what they meant is that they
disbelieve in the rest and, in their justification, they claim that their scripture
cannot be abrogated ..." (gee Y peut ol).

Asad [130], who is anti-abrogation,?° also interprets 2:106 based on its
context: "if we read this verse in conjunction with the preceding one, which
states that the Jews and the Christians refuse to accept any revelation which
might supersede that of the Bible: for, if read in this way, the abrogation
relates to the earlier divine messages and not to any part of the Quran itself."

The interpretation of aaya as previous scripture dates back to Al-Asfahani
[21] more than a millennium ago. Al-Asfahani specifically based his inter-
pretation on the flow from 2:105 to 2:106, treating them both in the same
paragraph. This was a contrarian view to the conventional wisdom at the
time which supported the Abrogation Doctrine, and he was attacked for cen-
turies because of it. It should be noted that the attacks were not about the
connection between 2:106 and 2:105 being flawed, but rather about the pro-
abrogation evidence being strong enough to dismiss the alternatives. We will
address this aspect in detail shortly in §9.4.2.

The specific wording of 2:105 and 2:106 supports the above interpretation,
as Al-Shaarawi may have been alluding to in his quote. Let us look at both
verses together and highlight a particular word:

sails J JES oS AIG Ces yal 5 yes Gel aaie Y
Le @ paball J Saal 58 ists ¢ SS Yaash5 Se

& ~

oe F fe i Fats Nak Tah a ob G8 sl x al Sys Ge eS
[y1-\:0 88] € F235

(2:105-106] Neither those who disbelieve from the people of the
Scripture nor the polytheists wish that any |good| should be sent down
to you [Muslims] from your Lord. But God selects for His mercy whom
He wills, and God is the possessor of great bounty. Whatever verse
We may abrogate or cause to be forgotten, We bring |better| than
it or similar to it. Did you not know that God is quite capable of
everything?

The Arabic word khair (+) signifies both the noun 'good' and the compara-
tive adjective 'better', so it is the same word used in 2:105 to describe what

19This is in verse 2:91 that talks about the Jews in Medina rejecting the Quran.
20 Asad is the scholar who introduced the English expression "doctrine of abrogation".

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.4. THE ABROGATION VERSE (2:106)

people of the Scripture don't want God to send down to Muslims, and in
2:106 to describe what will be brought to replace what God abrogates. This
gives credence to the interpretation that 2:106 is about the Quran abrogating
previous scripture (Al-Jabri [54]).

e This also explains why 2:106 is phrased as a conditional statement, i.e., what
would happen if God abrogated something. The statement that 2:106 makes
is not about abrogation per se, but about what would be brought if something
was abrogated. The majority opinion of Islamic scholars is that previous
scripture was abrogated by the Quran. What 2:106 adds is the assurance about
goodness; God makes the statement that the Quran is unquestionably good
because He would not abrogate a previous scripture except with something
that is at least as good. This is a direct rebuttal to people of the Scripture
who do not want good to be sent down to Muslims, as 2:105 reported.

e While the anti-abrogation interpretation of 2:106 connects it to 2:105, the
pro-abrogation interpretation pointedly separates the two. For example, Zeid
[206] treats 2:105 as the culmination of a discussion about animosity toward
Muslims, then uses the phrasing of the circumstances of revelation that were
discredited in our response to Point A to justify treating 2:106 as starting
a new topic about defending the abrogation of Quranic verses against enemy
attacks.

Exegete Al-Baghawi [23] also grouped 2:105 in a block of verses separately
from the block containing 2:106, and gave the pro-abrogation interpretation
of 2:106 without any reference in it to what 2:105 said. It is possible that this
grouping was affected by the standard division of the Quran into segments"!
that happens to group 2:105 and 2:106 separately. There is nothing signifi-
cant or authoritative about this particular, man-made grouping which was not
practiced by the Prophet (PBUH) or his Fellows (RA), but it is universally used
nonetheless.

point of interest

There is some length uniformity in the division of the Quranic
script into segments." An interesting observation about the two
segments that separate 2:105 from 2:106 is that if the division is
modified by pulling 2:106 into the segment that contains 2:105, the
lengths of the two segments will be closer to each other than they
are now, both in terms of the number of verses and the number of
words, and even the number of letters. Why an uneven partition
that separates the two verses was chosen over a more even partition
that would put them together is not clear.

21 The division is hierarchical and consists of 30 'parts' of 2 'hizbs' each, where each hizb
consists of 4 segments called quarter-hizbs.

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.4. THE ABROGATION VERSE (2:106)

When the previous-scripture interpretation of 2:106 is discussed in pro-
abrogation literature, the continuity from 2:105 to 2:106 is not addressed. The
discussion focuses on whether aaya, the object of abrogation in 2:106 which
we translated to 'verse', can legitimately refer to previous scripture. That was
discussed in detail in §9.3, and the analysis in our response to Point E shows
that aaya is a valid Arabic word for verse in previous scripture, not just in the
Quran.

e Two other aspects of 2:106 fit this anti-abrogation interpretation as well:

1. A previous scripture that is still available can be abrogated simply by
withdrawing the divine authority from it. This applies to the Torah and
the Gospel which are still there, even if not in their original form. On
the other hand, a previous scripture that was lost, e.g., the scripts of
Abraham (PBUH), would not be meaningfully 'abrogated' since there is
nothing left to abrogate. Instead, it would fall under the provision of
'caused to be forgotten' in 2:106. Al-Nimr [74] describes it as a mes-
sage that had been abandoned until its features were lost, and now gets
renewed by another scripture.

2. Another assertion in 2:106 is that what is brought to replace the ab-
rogated or the forgotten is not always better than it, but is sometimes
similar to it. As Al-Shaarawi [92] explains, the similar part pertains to
the basic tenets of religion included in the old scripture such as the one-
ness of God. These tenets are just reiterated by subsequent scriptures,
so what is brought in this case is similar to what was there before.

Now that we have presented the anti-abrogation interpretation of 2:106,
we move to a rebuttal of the pro-abrogation interpretation to complete our
argument.

9.4.2 Pro-Abrogation Interpretation

The role of 2:106 as Quranic evidence for the Abrogation Doctrine is paramount.
The main premise of the Abrogation Doctrine which is the abrogation of the
ruling but not the recitation of a verse in the Quranic script originated from
an interpretation of 2:106 attributed to the fellows of Ibn Masoud (not Ibn Ma-
soud (RA) himself). This was reported in Al-Tabari [107] when he quoted their
view "We affirm its script and substitute its ruling" as an interpretation of
the opening part of 2:106, "Whatever verse We may abrogate".

The expression 'abrogation of the ruling but not the recitation' is not
found in any tradition that dates back to the time of the Prophet (PBUH). It
is an interpretation that originated decades after his death. It is not the only
interpretation of that era as shown in our response to Point I. Nonetheless,

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.4. THE ABROGATION VERSE (2:106)

it is the interpretation that was chosen by Al-Tabari and was widely adopted
afterward. Let us look at the evidence that the exegetes cited when they
interpreted 2:106 this way. This can shed light on some of the reasons why
they chose this particular interpretation.

e As we elaborated in §9.3.3, the biggest leap in 'abrogation of the ruling but
not the recitation' is that the word 'verse' which is the object of abrogation in
2:106 is made to mean ruling in a verse, not the verse itself. The wording of
2:106 does not mention 'ruling' or any synonym of it. To inject something that
is not explicit in the verse, a compelling reason is needed per the established
theological principles (M. Al-Zahabi [118] and Ibrahim [178]) of "taking the

absolute of the language" (4aU\ Bh, is) and indication by necessity (4Y>
¢l28Y!). What was the reason that Al-Tabari gave?

Al-Tabari gave one reason only. His reason was that 2:106 says that some-
thing 'better than it' will be brought when a verse is abrogated, and nothing
can be better than a Quranic verse, not even another Quranic verse since they
are all God's words. Therefore, it must be something other than the verse
itself that is being abrogated, something that can be replaced with what is
better. This made him accept 'ruling in the verse' as the intended object of
abrogation in 2:106. As we have seen in our response to Point H, the reasoning
that no Quranic verse can be better than another was debunked with clear
evidence by key figures such as A. Al-Ghazali [44] and Ibn Taymia [172].

This reasoning - that was debunked - was the basis that Al-Tabari used
in justifying the 'ruling in a verse' interpretation and not taking the word
'verse' in 2:106 at face value. Many other exegetes that came after him used
the same refuted reasoning, e.g., Al-Baghawi [23], Al-Qurtubi [80], Al-Nasafi
[72], Al-Khazen [62], and Al-Maqdesi [68).

e Another piece of evidence used by the exegetes in justifying the pro-abrogation
interpretation of 2:106 is the circumstances of its revelation. They invariably
cited accusations by the enemies of Islam that the rulings that the Prophet
(PBUH) brought contradicted each other, thus projecting that 2:106 came as
a vindication of the Prophet by implying that contradictions are in fact abro-
gations mandated by God. We have shown that these narrations of circum-
stances of revelation are inauthentic in our response to Point A.

Among the exegetes that cited this inauthentic evidence are Al-Baghawi
[23], Al-Zamakhshari [124], Al-Razi [83], Al-Qurtubi [80], Al-Baydawi [31],
Al-Nasafi [72], Al/-Khazen [62], Al-Ghornati [47], and Al-Maqdesi [68].

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.4. THE ABROGATION VERSE (2:106)

point to ponder

Many exegetes, when they interpreted 2:106 as supporting the Ab-
rogation Doctrine, cited more than one piece of evidence that was
later refuted as we have shown. More examples of that will be
presented in Chapter 10.

e The third common piece of evidence that many exegetes used was to cite
examples that they believed were actual instances of abrogation, thus showing
that the pro-abrogation interpretation of 2:106 had tangible evidence. Al-
Baghawi [23] and others cited the abrogation claim about the widow's resi-
dence that was repeatedly refuted by later scholars. We discussed this claim
in §4.1. Others cited instances that were not about abrogated verses in the
Quranic script, e.g., Al-Tabari [107] who mentioned abrogating the require-
ment of facing Jerusalem in the prayers and replacing it with a requirement
to face Mecca. However, facing Jerusalem was not a Quranic mandate, so
nothing in the Quranic script was abrogated here.

Other exegetes also cited evidence that abrogation has occurred in general,
where the object of abrogation is not verses in the Quranic script. This evi-
dence is not false, just irrelevant to the pro-abrogation interpretation of 2:106.
Interestingly, Al-Khazen [62] and others cited abrogation of previous scripture
by the Quran, which is in fact the core of the anti-abrogation interpretation
of 2:106 presented in §9.4.1.

e What is the conclusion? We have discussed two alternatives? for interpret-
ing 2:106,

1. The anti-abrogation interpretation in §9.4.1 which is based on the con-
text set in 2:105. It shows that 2:106 is not talking about the abrogation
of verses in the Quranic script, but rather the abrogation of previous
scripture by the Quran.

2. The pro-abrogation interpretation which asserts that the object of ab-
rogation in 2:106 are verses in the Quranic script. We showed that this
interpretation is built on key pieces of evidence that have been refuted.

Therefore, one cannot take 2:106 as proof that there are abrogated verses in
the Quranic script.

Interestingly, there is another way of reaching this conclusion directly. It
is self-evident that the wording of 2:106 does not, in and of itself, prove that
abrogation of any kind has occurred (Zuhair [207]). This is because what 2:106
states is that if abrogation happens, then what is brought is better or similar.

?2There is a third alternative supported by many scholars that 2:106 is about physical
miracles, not verses of any scripture. See §9.3.1 for details.

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.5. THE SUBSTITUTION VERSE (16:101)

This does not affirm that abrogation has to happen, but rather what will take
place if it does (Al-Razi [83] and others).

For our purposes, where we only need to show that refuting all abrogation
claims as was done in Part II does not contradict what 2:106 is saying, this
conditional aspect of 2:106 is patently sufficient for that. We opted to go
through the other details in order to cover all angles and leave no doubt about
the conclusion.

9.5 The Substitution Verse (16:101)

The second Quranic passage often cited as evidence for the Abrogation Doc-
trine is also phrased as a conditional statement,

je AS EHH Me GR Ge Hel ail oT OK ETS (Sy >
[sy bell € Gytks Y ai
[16:101] And when We have substituted a verse in the place of
another verse - and God knows best what He sends down - they would

say: you are but a pretender. Rather, most of them do not know.

saying what would happen conditioned on a verse being replaced. In addition,
the passage does not use the word 'abrogation' (naskh), but uses 'substitution'
instead. Why is it taken then as evidence for the Abrogation Doctrine? Pro-
abrogation scholars see two reasons:

1. Substituting a verse in place of another can be seen as a manifestation
of abrogation (Al-Shaarawi [92]). Also, the passage mentions attacks
on the authenticity of the Prophet (PBUH) which match the purported
circumstances of revelation of the abrogation verse 2:106 (see §9.2).

2. Although the passage 16:101 is conditional, it uses a more definitive con-
ditional article than 2:106 does (Al-Arid [20]). This conditional article
(3!) is more suggestive that the condition actually occurred, hence our
translation of it in the passage to 'when' rather than 'if'.

There are counterpoints to both of these reasons:

1. The reference to substitution in the passage is specific: "substitute a verse
in the place of another verse" (verse being aaya). The wording 'in the
place of' suggests that the original verse is gone and replaced by the new
verse. This would imply that the verse that was replaced is no longer in
the Quranic script, contrary to what the Abrogation Doctrine asserts.

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.5. THE SUBSTITUTION VERSE (16:101)

Supporting this view, Al-Ghornati [47] states that "the appearance is
that this substitution lifted a verse in letter and in meaning." This
means that 16:101 is unrelated to the Abrogation Doctrine if its wording
is taken at face value.

2. It is true that the conditional article \3\ used in 16:101 suggests that the
condition (substitution of a verse) actually occurred, but what kind of
verse is it? There are two mentions of the word 'verse' - aaya in 16:101,
what was replaced and what replaced it. The pro-abrogation interpre-
tation asserts that both are Quranic verses, and the anti-abrogation
interpretation asserts that only one of them belongs to the Quran; the
other belongs to previous scripture.

Even staunch pro-abrogation exegete Al-Qurtubi [80] mentions the anti-
abrogation possibility: "We substituted an earlier body of rulings with
a later body of rulings." Pro-abrogation scholar Al-Shaarawi [92] also
comments on the substitution mentioned in 16:101 by saying: "We
brought a verse pointing to a ruling that differs from what was in the
Torah."

Does the context shed light on these two interpretations? The passage
that comes after 16:101 allows both possibilities:

5s al ill 6 By BS yo oll C45 UG >
[0s Joell] € Grebe 67835
[16:102] Say, "The spirit of holiness sent it down from your

Lord in truth to affirm those who have believed and as guidance
and good tidings to the Muslims."

It is clearly talking about the Quran. The object in 'sent it down' (45)
relates to the previous passage 16:101, and the subject is Archangel
Gabriel (the spirit of holiness) bringing it to Muslims. However, this
could be referring to the substituting verse only, or to both substituting
and substituted verses. It is further context that clarifies which is it, in
favor of the anti-abrogation interpretation.

Anti-Abrogation Interpretation

The context that favors the anti-abrogation interpretation comes in the pas-
sage right after 16:101-102,

z

ore culnes Bieta as)
Dt Joell € Capt G58 SLE) ks Ea

i

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.5. THE SUBSTITUTION VERSE (16:101)

[16:103] And We certainly know that they say, "It is only a human
being who teaches [the Prophet]." The tongue of the one they refer
to is foreign, and this Quran is [in] a clear Arabic language.

The subject matter of 16:103 is a common accusation that the polytheists
in Mecca made toward the Prophet (PBUH) to explain away how a sophisti-
cated and articulate book like the Quran can come from a man who does not
read or write?? (PBUH). Their theory was that someone who was knowledgeable
in previous scripture must have been teaching him, and they even identified
some individuals the Prophet (PBUH) knew as the possible culprits. The rebut-
tal within 16:103 is compelling; the Arabic literary quality of the Quran did
not exist in previous scripture, and that literary quality is what puzzled the
polytheists the most as proficient Arabic speakers.

This steers the interpretation of "they would say: you are but a pretender"
(22s ro tail i,i6) in 16:101 towards the objection to the Quran as a whole in

relation to previous scripture. Hasaballah [139] and Al-Nimr [74] reached that
conclusion despite being pro-abrogation scholars. They just do not consider

16:101 as part of the evidence for the Abrogation Doctrine.

Although previous scripture was not significant to the polytheists in and of
itself, as they did not believe in any Abrahamic religion, in their minds it was
a convenient way to explain the rich content of the Quran. Previous scripture
shared similar beliefs and practices with the Quran, and this is something
the polytheists were familiar with. They were exposed to Abrahamic reli-
gions when they encountered Jews and Christians in their regular commercial
travels, and some in Mecca itself.

This consolidates a common theme that runs through 16:101-103. The
polytheists are attacking the truthfulness of the Prophet (PBUH) while they
still have to contend with the inexplicable quality of the Quran. How do they
manage that? Their chosen line of attack was that the Prophet (PBUH) was just
reproducing those older scriptures. Let us take another look at 16:101-103 in
this light.

In 16:101, they raised doubts about the need to reproduce old scriptures;
why would God substitute one scripture for another that is similar? It is not
that they were trying to protect old scripture; they were just playing devil's
advocates.74 Then in 16:103, they capitalized again on the similarity, this time
by raising doubts about the authenticity of the Quran; it must be plagiarized
from old scripture. This is the common theme.

God's response in 16:102 is not the only instance in the Quran where He
reassures Muslims in the face of similar attacks on the authenticity of the

?3The Prophet (PBUH) was nonliterate his entire life. The Quran was conveyed by him
orally.
24Tn this case, literally. The attackers were pre-identified in 16:100 as allegiants to Satan.

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.5. THE SUBSTITUTION VERSE (16:101)

Quran and of the Prophet (PBUH). Hasaballah [139] tallied ten instances in the
Quran that account for explicit accusations toward the Prophet (PBUH) that he
is a pretender, and nine of them were in the Meccan era like 16:101-103. For
example,

G8 GAN Ged Seals ail gd Gs of OI STAN ISS SE G3
JASE AS GTN Ss bo ad 5 VOUS Jelly 55
[YA-YV: S53] wae abba 53 gag 135

[10:37-38] And it was not [possible] for this Quran to be pretended
and not from God. Rather, [it is] a confirmation of what was before
it and a detailed explanation of the Book. There is no doubt in it. [It
is] from the Lord of the worlds. Or do they say [about the Prophet],
"He is a pretender of it"? Say, "Then bring forth a chapter like it ...

The ingredients are the same; to assure the authenticity of the Quran and put
it in the context of previous scripture. The passage also challenges the Meccan
polytheists as fluent Arabic speakers to create even one chapter of the same
literary quality as the Quran.

The plausibility of this anti-abrogation interpretation?® of 16:101 is more
than sufficient to allay concerns that the refutation of the abrogation claims
within the Quranic script that was done in Part II contradicts what 16:101 is
saying, which is all we set out to do here.

By contrast, the pro-abrogation interpretation of 16:101 follows the same
debunked evidence used in the pro-abrogation interpretation of 2:106,

1. False necessity of the 'ruling in a verse' interpretation: Although pre-
decessor quotes about 16:101 only talk about erasing a verse and bringing
another without reference to 'ruling in a verse', the 'ruling' interpreta-
tion is adopted in 16:101 by the exegetes who just refer it back to 2:106.
There, it was based on misconceived necessity?° as mentioned before; Al-
Tabari [107] chose the 'ruling in a verse' interpretation of aaya over just
'verse' based on his perception that no Quranic verse can be better than
another, as 2:106 would otherwise imply. Other exegetes followed the
same reasoning. This perception was later debunked with clear evidence
by key figures such as Ibn Taymia [172] and A. Al-Ghazali [44].

25 \|-Jabri [54] and Al-Khatib [61] have another anti-abrogation interpretation that is less
touted. They view 16:101 to be about changes in the order of verses within the Quran.

26 As explained earlier, the applicable principle is indication by necessity (clas) JY>)
elaborated in Ibrahim [178].

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.5. THE SUBSTITUTION VERSE (16:101)

point to ponder

Most pro-abrogation scholars interpreted the word for 'verse' (aaya
- 4) in 16:101 as a metaphor for 'ruling in a verse'. This made it
possible in their view for a verse to be substituted by another verse
while still remaining in the Quran, which the Abrogation Doctrine
requires. Unlike 2:106, no claim of necessity was made in the case
of 16:101 to justify this metaphorical interpretation.

2. Inauthentic statement of the circumstances of revelation: In the case
of 16:101, there is an added component compared to 2:106; exegetes
sometimes attributed the circumstances of revelation to a narration by
Ibn Abbas (RA) (Al-Samarqandi [86] and Al-Razi [83], among others).
As in the case of 2:106, the circumstances of revelation provide a strong
basis for the pro-abrogation interpretation. However, the attribution to
Ibn Abbas (RA) was shown to be inauthentic in our response to Point B,
as the unattributed version was shown to be inauthentic in our response
to Point A.

As we can see, the pro-abrogation interpretation of 16:101 suffers from the
same shortcomings as its counterpart in 2:106.

9.5.1 Difference between 2:106 and 16:101

There are significant differences between the abrogation verse, 2:106, and the
substitution verse, 16:101, that are worth noting since the two passages are
often mixed together. They were revealed in different eras; 16:101 belongs to
the Meccan era while 2:106 was revealed in Medina after the Muslims immi-
grated from Mecca.?' The circumstances they dealt with were quite distinct
even though they were both billed as just a proof for the Abrogation Doctrine.

The passages defend the Quran and the Prophet (PBUH) against different
attacks by those threatened by Islam. The polytheists in Mecca feared that
Islam would diminish their privilege and revenue as Kaaba hosts,?° while the
Jews in Medina feared that Islam might diminish their religious stature. This
led to their attacks as highlighted in the following box.

27See Appendix A.6 for the order of revelation of the 114 chapters of the Quran.

8 Kaaba is the cubic black shrine in Mecca that Abraham (PBUH) and his son Ishmael
(PBUH) built. It became a pilgrimage destination even for idol worshippers before it reverted
to Muslims as the pilgrimage destination and the direction they face in prayers.

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.6. OTHER VERSES

Substitution Verse 16:101 versus Abrogation Verse 2:106

1) Two different dilemmas colored the attacks on Islam:

e The polytheists in Mecca were puzzled by the literary quality of
the Quran. Religion itself mattered less; they knew of Abrahamic
religions and disbelieved them.

e The Jews in Medina were puzzled that the Quran elaborated
guarded details in Judaism. The literary quality of the Quran
mattered less; Arabic was not their passion.

2) The attacks tried to impeach these puzzling aspects:

e The polytheists insinuated that someone must be coaching
Muhammad (PBUH) to make up the Quran. God reassured Mus-
lims that the Quran is "from your Lord in truth" (16:102).

e The Jews depicted the religious merit of the Quran as inferior
to the Torah. God reassured Muslims about the goodness He
conferred in the Quran: "better than it or similar to it" (2:106).

3) Abrogation/substitution figured differently in the two cases:

e 16:101-102 explained why God substituted one scripture for an-
other: as affirmation for believers and guidance for Muslims.

e 2:105-106 explained how an abrogation by God assures the good-
ness of the Quran in relation to previous scripture.

9.6 Other Verses

In addition to the abrogation verse and the substitution verse, two other
Quranic passages are sometimes cited as evidence for the Abrogation Doc-
trine. These are verses 13:39 and 87:6 which we will discuss in this section.
A third passage, verse 22:52, is often cited in the context of abrogation but
not as evidence for the doctrine, and we will address that verse in §11.4.

9.6.1 The Erase-and-Confirm Verse (13:39)

Verse 13:39 is often mentioned as evidence for abrogation in the books that
are dedicated to the subject. For example, Makki [184] cites it before any
other Quranic evidence, saying "this is evidence that abrogation is permitted
according to what the Quran says." In most cases, it is not clear whether the
authors consider it evidence for abrogation in general, e.g., abrogation between

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.6. OTHER VERSES

different scriptures, or evidence for the Abrogation Doctrine in particular.

By contrast, most exegetes tilt toward other interpretations of 13:39 that
have nothing to do with abrogation. Let us look at the verse:

[v4 : ac Jl] yc CES Af ee5 ¢ Es ACKEUS abil ans
[13:39] God erases what He wills and confirms [what He wills], and
with Him is the Origin of the Book.

What is erased and what is confirmed are understood by many exegetes to
be matters of fate, either as the exclusive or at least prominent interpreta-
tion. Among them are Al-Tabari [107], Al-Thaalabi [110], Al-Baghawi [23],
Al-Qurtubi [80], Ibn Kathir [163], Al-Thaalibi [111], and Ibn Ashur [153].

With so many prominent exegetes interpreting 13:39 in a way that does not
support the Abrogation Doctrine, we have enough evidence to argue that there
is no contradiction between refuting all claims of abrogation in the Quranic
script as was done in Part II and what 13:39 is saying. Not only that, but
there is in fact a plausible argument that 13:39 may be talking about the Quran
abrogating previous scripture, which is the anti-abrogation interpretation of
2:106 and 16:101 that we presented in §9.4.1 and §9.5. Once more, the context
is what substantiates this interpretation as the verse before it, 13:38, says??

3 Sy 25) O8 eg ec GUS fe US tasty >
asaemnd BUS Jet Ra

[13:38] And We have already sent messengers before you ..... And
it was not for a messenger to come with a verse except by permission
of God. For every era there is a Book.

Under this interpretation, 13:38 is specifically referring to scriptures that pre-
vious messengers received from God, and asserting that each of these scriptures
was for a particular era (Qutb [191]). When 13:39 follows with the statement
that God erases what He wills and confirms what He wills, the correspondence
to previous scripture being abrogated by the Quran prevails.

Pro-abrogation scholar Zeid [206] concurs. When he interprets 13:38, he
sees the word aaya (which we translated to 'verse') as 'miracle' that refers to
the body of legislation that a scripture embodies, then specifically cites this
context as he adopts the previous-scripture interpretation of 13:39,

"What does the context assert in indicating what is meant by
erasing and confirming in this verse? ...The purview of erasure and

2°We are only quoting the part of the verse that provides the context.

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.6. OTHER VERSES

confirmation is the bodies of legislation then, and these are the
miracles of the messengers that God has sent to His creatures as
an invitation to monotheism and to worship Him; He erases one
miracle of a messenger to confirm in its place another miracle of
the messenger that comes after him."

Zeid [206] also rejects pro-abrogation interpretations of 13:39, pointing out
that narrations that imply that it is about abrogation within the Quran, in-
cluding a narration attributed to Ibn Abbas, are inauthentic. He expresses
reservations as well about the interpretation of 13:39 as addressing matters of
fate, which was advocated in the exegeses we cited.

point to ponder

The three Quranic passages 2:106, 16:101, and 13:39 are widely
cited by pro-abrogation scholars as evidence for the Abrogation
Doctrine. However, each of the three passages has the same al-
ternative interpretation; the Quran abrogated previous scripture
rather than abrogating verses within the Quran itself. This inter-
pretation is keyed to the context and exact wording of each passage
and has support from both pro- and anti-abrogation camps.

One final remark. The Origin of the Book that is held by God as mentioned
in 13:39 is also mentioned elsewhere in the Quran. In particular, the following
passage talks about the stature of the Quran in the Origin of the Book:

[43:3-4] Indeed, We have made it an Arabic Quran so that you
might comprehend. And indeed it is, in the Origin of the Book with
Us, exalted and full of wisdom.

This fits the interpretation that this origin has all the scriptures that were sent
down to different prophets, including the Quran. The fact that the Quran is
exalted among them means that no other scripture is better than it, which
reaffirms what 2:106 is saying according to its anti-abrogation interpretation.

As we mentioned, verse 13:39 is not counted as evidence for abrogation by
many books of exegesis, but it is often interpreted in a pro-abrogation fashion
by books that are dedicated to the subject of abrogation. This contrast goes
in the other direction for verse 87:6 which we discuss next.

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.6. OTHER VERSES

9.6.2 The Forgetfulness Verse (87:6)

A number of exegetes see verse 87:6 in conjunction with the verse that follows
it as evidence of abrogation. Here are the two verses:

( GS ey Al le Si LY) @ OG a >
[v-1: de]
(87:6-7] We will make you recite such that you do not forget -

except what God willed. Verily, He knows what is manifest and what
hides out.

Verse 87:6 reassures the Prophet (PBUH) that he will not forget the Quranic
revelations that he receives, something he was concerned about in the early
days of the revelation. The reason this issue may be related at all to abrogation
is that the exception in the next verse, "except what God willed", seems to leave
room for forgetfulness of some parts of the Quranic revelation.

Exegetes who saw this as evidence of abrogation interpreted the exception
to be about verses that are abrogated. Among these exegetes are Al-Tabari
(107], Al-Thaalibi [111], Al-Khazen [62], and Ibn Ashur [153].

Some exegetes saw it differently. They interpreted the exception to be
figurative, a way to reiterate the supremacy of God's will but without an im-
plication that such exception will actually take place. They often quoted
a similar example from the Quran about those who are going to Paradise:

55 ALLY Sj SHEA al Ged Gels BA Sb
[VA : 390] € ss
[11:108] ... they are in Paradise, immortal in it as long as the

heavens and the earth endure, except what your Lord willed ...

In this case, the exception for God's will is patently figurative since God has
promised elsewhere that the reward of Paradise is permanent. Among the
exegetes who agree with this view and conclude that verse 87:6 is unrelated
to abrogation are Al-Qurtubi [80], Al-Razi [83], and Qutb [191].

However, neither opinion has a bearing on the Abrogation Doctrine itself,
and indeed the verse is seldom used as evidence in abrogation books. If 87:6-7
are related to abrogation at all, the abrogated verses in this case would be for-
gotten and would not have made it to the Quranic script. They could perhaps
be under the "cause to be forgotten" provision in 2:106 or under the "abroga-
tion of both ruling and recitation" category which is discussed in Appendix
A.7. However, that would not pertain to abrogation of verses in the Quranic
script which is the sole scope of the Abrogation Doctrine.

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.6. OTHER VERSES

With that out of the way, let us examine the exception in 87:7. It is
befitting that God would include it whether it is figurative or literal. The
express purpose of verses 87:6-7 is to reassure the Prophet (PBUH) who was
worried about forgetting any of the revelations, a terrifying thought given his
enormous responsibility. Since the goal is to alleviate his worries, it fits that
purpose that God would say "such that you do not forget except what God
willed" thus telling the Prophet that any forgetfulness that could possibly take
place would be the express will of God. The Prophet can then put his mind
at ease with such reassurance.

There is an example of forgetfulness reported in a Prophetic narration
where the Prophet (PBUH) skipped a verse in his recitation of the Quran during
the prayers and was asked if the verse he skipped was abrogated. The Prophet
(PBUH) responded (in a version of that narration)°° that he was 'made to forget
it'. In another version, the Prophet (PBUH) lamented that people did not remind
him during the recitation.

In spite of the wording "made to forget it" being a direct conjugation in
Arabic of the wording in 2:106 "cause to be forgotten", the narrative suggests
that the skipped verse was not forgotten forever since it was recognized and
discussed, so it was a simple case of human forgetfulness on the part of the
Prophet (PBUH) rather than a case related to abrogation. It is possible, and we
have no way of knowing one way or the other, that the Prophet's expression
"made to forget it" is based on 87:6-7 where forgetfulness is attributed to the
will of God. Chronologically, Chapter 87 (eM 3yg~) was one of the earliest
chapters to be revealed in the Quran, so it probably predated this incident.

point of interest

In the extensive abrogation literature, there is an endless debate
about which interpretation of the Quranic passages that relate to
abrogation is more compelling. This debate is less critical here
because our starting point in this chapter was that all individual
abrogation claims had already been refuted in Part I] of the book.
Our task was to show that the above passages do not necessitate
that there are abrogated verses in the Quranic script.

As we have seen in this chapter, the two main Quranic passages 2:106 and
16:101 that have been interpreted as evidence for the Abrogation Doctrine have
a compelling alternative interpretation as addressing abrogation of previous
scripture by the Quran. The two other Quranic passages 13:39 and 87:6 do

30This version, originally not included among authentic narrations, was reexamined by
Al-Albani [10] who judged it to be sahth (authentic in the sense of having a reliable chain
of narration).

9. QURANIC EVIDENCE 9.6. OTHER VERSES

not provide evidence for the doctrine since the mainstream interpretation of
these verses is unrelated to the abrogation of verses in the Quranic script.
A fifth Quranic passage 22:52 that is sometimes mentioned in the context of
abrogation has not been claimed to support the doctrine and in fact, as we
will see in §11.4, may provide some evidence against it.

u~")

The Quranic passages that were interpreted as supportive of the Abroga-
tion Doctrine have been considered the strongest evidence for the doctrine by
pro-abrogation scholars. Their interpretation was challenged in this chapter,
and another, compelling interpretation that does not support the doctrine was
presented. Other evidence outside of the Quran is also used by pro-abrogation
scholars to bolster their case. We will attend to that evidence next.

Chapter 10

Other Evidence

In the previous chapter, we discussed Quranic evidence that is put forward by
pro-abrogation scholars in their support of the Abrogation Doctrine. There is
additional evidence from sources other than the Quran that is also cited by
pro-abrogation scholars. Most of this evidence is in the form of narrations by
early Muslims that are interpreted as supportive of specific abrogation claims
or of the Abrogation Doctrine in general.

We have already addressed the narrations about specific abrogation claims
in the sections discussing those claims in Part II, with reference to the full
list of authentic narrations among them in Appendix A.3. In this chapter, we
will focus more on additional narrations that talk about abrogation in general
without reference to a specific abrogation claim.

We will also address the assertion of unanimity about the Abrogation Doc-
trine that is sometimes invoked as superseding all other evidence and argu-
ments regarding the validity of the doctrine.

We reiterate that the case against the Abrogation Doctrine has already been
made through the refutation of individual abrogation claims. We continue the
rebuttal of evidence that is put forward to support the doctrine just to allay
concerns that such evidence contradicts the case that has already been made.

10.1 Separation of Recitation and Ruling

The first piece of evidence we address is the narration that started the notion
that abrogation can apply to the ruling in a verse without applying to the
verse as a whole. This notion is the cornerstone of the Abrogation Doctrine.
The narration quotes the fellows of Ibn Masoud (not Ibn Masoud (RA) himself)
interpreting the opening part of verse 2:106 "Whatever verse We may abrogate"

10. OTHER EVIDENCE 10.1. SEPARATION OF RECITATION AND RULING

o Of

to mean "We fix its script and substitute its ruling" - lg: nee dliglak os
(Al-Tabari [107]).

It is this separation between including a verse in the Quranic script and
following its ruling that Al-Tabari adopted in his highly influential exegesis,
allowing abrogation to apply to the ruling of a verse but not to its recitation as
part of the Quran.! Countless authors adopted this interpretation afterward.

point of interest

Separating the ruling of a verse from its recitation was never men-
tioned in any authentic narration that belongs to the Prophetic
era. The narration in question originated decades after the death
of the Prophet (PBUH).

So what was the basis for separating the ruling of a verse from its recita-
tion? There is no account of the reasoning in the narration; just the brief
interpretation "We fix its script and substitute its ruling" of verse 2:106 is
available to us. Neither the word 'ruling' nor any of its synonyms appears in
verse 2:106.

Al-Tabari [107] and others tried to justify why 'ruling' was injected into
the interpretation of 2:106 despite not being mentioned in it. He asserted that
it was necessary because 2:106 talks about a verse being better than another
verse which is not possible since both are words of God. Hence, he concluded
that 'verse' must mean something else such as ruling in a verse. As we have
seen in §9.3.3, a verse can patently be better than another verse as shown by
direct evidence from key figures such as Ibn Taymia [172] and A. Al-Ghazali
[44|. Therefore, Al-Tabari's assertion that it is necessary to inject 'ruling' into
2:106 is not justified.

Nonetheless, the narration of the fellows of Ibn Masoud is considered ev-
idence for the Abrogation Doctrine by numerous pro-abrogation authors, in-
cluding Zeid [206] in his comprehensive modern book on the subject. Because
of the importance of this narration in establishing the Abrogation Doctrine,
we will analyze its wording and its sourcing in detail.

In terms of wording, it is unambiguous that the narration interprets verse
2:106 to mean separation of recitation and ruling in matters of abrogation.
Even though the wording is unambiguous, it is just an opinion of its author,
and that author is not the Prophet (PBUH) or his Fellows (RA), so it should be
weighed accordingly.

Who is the author of this wording? The narrators did not identify whom
among the fellows of Ibn Masoud they were quoting; there are at least six

1 This also gave rise to another type of abrogation that is outside the Abrogation Doctrine,
which is abrogation of the recitation but not the ruling. This is discussed in Appendix A.7.

10. OTHER EVIDENCE 10.1. SEPARATION OF RECITATION AND RULING

known fellows of Ibn Masoud (ra). It is unusual for a narration to collectively
quote them without specifying any of them. We conducted a search in Al-
Dorar Al-Saniyya [89] which covers the main narration books. There were no
authentic narrations that quote the fellows of Ibn Masoud (rather than tell
a story that involves them?) without identifying any of them.

In terms of sourcing, this narration is reported through three chains. All
three of them go through the same person, Ibn Abi-Najeeh (Afana [7]). There-
fore, the narration is a single; its authenticity hinges on the reliability of one
person. Ibn Abi-Najeeh was a religious figure and narrator in Mecca who died
in the hijri year 131. Let us look at what we know about him.

On the positive side, most evaluations of narrators describe him as a trust-
worthy figure. There is a caveat, though. He is reported to have frequently
quoted the contemporary exegete Mujahid without actually hearing these
quotes from him. According to Ibn Hibban, everyone who quoted Mujahid in
matters of exegesis took those quotes from the writings of Al-Qasim Ibn Abi-
Bazza, the scholar who did hear Mujahid directly (Ibn Hajar [159]).

Two of the three versions of the narration that separates ruling and recita-
tion has Ibn Abi-Najeeh quoting Mujahid who in turn quotes the fellows of
Ibn Masoud. Based on the doubts about what Ibn Abi-Najeeh narrated from
Mujahid, the only version of the narration that Zeid [206] accepted is the one
where Ibn Abi-Najeeh quotes the fellows of Ibn Masoud directly.

These doubts also led Al-Nasai, one of the six major narrations scholars,
to classify Ibn Abi-Najeeh as one of the 'imposers' - jee (S. Al-Zahabi
[119]), namely those who quote someone as if they heard the quote from him
when in fact they did not. Ibn Hajar [158], who is highly regarded in the
subject of narrators, ranked the imposers into five levels based on all available
evidence. He put Ibn Abi-Najeeh in the middle; the third level which Ibn Hajar
[158] described as "imposed a lot" (J43\ cy 3S 1) and "some rejected their
narrations in the absolute and others accepted them". One cannot escape the
conclusion that this characterization raises some doubt about the authenticity
of the narrations that Ibn Abi-Najeeh reported.

An even more serious concern that most assessments of Ibn Abi-Najeeh
raised, even those that generally praised him, is that he was a 'Fatalist' (qadari
- ee Fa Fatalism was a religious sect that deviated from the consensus of
mainstream Islam in that it cast doubt on God's prior knowledge of the future.
This stems from a philosophical effort to reconcile man's free will with God's
prior knowledge (Amin [129]).

A strict version of Fatalism denied God's knowledge of the future alto-

?Sometimes, they are referred to as 'fellows of Abdullah', using the first name of Ibn Ma-
soud (RA).

3 Although the term is derived from the word 33 (fate), it was based on a close word 5.8
(ability, that is of the human being to make choices).

oe

10. OTHER EVIDENCE 10.1. SEPARATION OF RECITATION AND RULING

gether, asserting that what man will do only becomes known to God after it
is done. A more moderate version, if it can be so described, believed that the
deeds of man are man's own work, and not created by God. The mainstream
consensus finds both views unacceptable as they violate explicit Quranic text
which states that God created everything and knows everything. While it
is evident that Ibn Abi-Najeeh was a Fatalist, there is no evidence that pins
down what exactly he believed or whether he later changed his views. May
God accept him according to his best deeds.

Trustworthiness as a narrator is a separate issue from philosophical be-
liefs, but there is a legitimate concern in this case because of the subject mat-
ter of the narration in question. Abrogation fits the false notion that God's
knowledge is not complete, which is precisely why abrogation was attacked as
a manifestation of Al-badaa (clas! - 'getting a better idea') which we discussed
on page 12. While equating abrogation with Al-badaa is false as we argued in
detail, believing in Al-badaa necessitates abrogation within the Quran itself to
remedy situations where Quranic rulings had unforeseen consequences — God
forbid.

This means that a Fatalist, who does not believe in God's prior knowledge,
would be biased toward accepting the Abrogation Doctrine. We do not know
whether such bias affected Ibn Abi-Najeeh in phrasing the narration that is
the foundation of the Abrogation Doctrine. However, between this potential
bias and the imperfect assessment of him as a narrator, there are legitimate
concerns about the accuracy of this narration.

The Fatalism issue does not stop at Ibn Abi-Najeeh. The next person in
the chain of this narration, Issa Al-Jurashi who quoted Ibn Abi-Najeeh, was
also a Fatalist (Ibn Hajar [159]). Shibl Ibn Abbad, who quoted Ibn Abi-Najeeh
in one of the other two versions of the narration, was a Fatalist as well (Ibn
Hajar {159]). The third version of the narration does not include the language
that separates recitation from ruling (see side note 32).

One final circumstantial issue about this narration. There are no narrations
in the literature where Ibn Abi-Najeeh or Mujahid quotes any of the six fellows
of Ibn Masoud. S. Al-Zahabi [119] lists for each narrator the recognized names
of those who narrated from him, and neither Ibn Abi-Najeeh nor Mujahid
appears on the lists of the six fellows of Ibn Masoud. This is not a surprise
since Ibn Abi-Najeeh and Mujahid lived in Mecca, more than a thousand
miles away from Iraq where the fellows of Ibn Masoud lived. So, this makes
the narration about the separation of recitation and ruling an anomaly among
the narrations attributed to either Ibn Abi-Najeeh or Mujahid.

As we have seen, the evidentiary value of the narration in support of the
Abrogation Doctrine is compromised by multiple issues. It is further com-
promised by the fact that even if accurate, what is narrated does not explain
why the fellows of Ibn Masoud came to the opinion of injecting 'ruling' into

10. OTHER EVIDENCE 10.2. CONFLATED EVIDENCE

the interpretation of verse 2:106 which has no mention of ruling. As we noted
before, Al-Tabari tried to justify the injection of 'ruling', but his justification
was refuted in §9.3.3 with direct evidence from key figures such as Ibn Taymia
[172] and A. Al-Ghazali [44].

We believe that the adoption by Al-Tabari [107] of what the narration says
when he interpreted verse 2:106 is what brought the separation of recitation
and ruling to prominence. Not only is the narration he relied on questionable,
but his justification of that separation is also refutable.

Furthermore, there is independent counter-evidence in the Quran itself; the
notion of reciting a ruling and not following it goes in the face of a Quranic
command to do as we say:

Ol ail Be Ge fF @ GLY 85 I Ista Gall TG .
Red Coeur ee a5
(61:2-3] O you who have believed, why do you say what you do
not do? It is greatly detested in the sight of God that you say what
you do not do.

Al-Tabari [107] himself interpreted these verses in the generality that the
Quranic words convey, saying: "why do you say something then not follow
it up with deed? Your deeds are different from your words. God greatly de-
tests your saying something that you don't do." Exegete Ibn Atiya [154] is
explicit about the generality of verse 61:3 as he comments on other special-
ized interpretations, saying "the ruling in this verse remains for all times, and
everyone who says what he does not do would be detested, contaminated in
what he says" (di Spor 56 «bee Yu Sob oY JS3 Al pe db UNI ois SS
eX), which Al-Thaalibi [111] quotes in his exegesis as well.

Notwithstanding the questions raised about the narration reported by
Ibn Abi-Najeeh, it is unique in its specificity about the Abrogation Doctrine;
abrogating the ruling but not the recitation of a Quranic verse. Other evi-
dence for abrogation lacks this specificity. Because of this, we will highlight
the important issue of conflation in the next section before we analyze the rest
of the evidence.

10.2 Conflated Evidence

We turn our attention to an important theme that runs through the rest of
this chapter; conflation. This issue colors much of the evidence presented by
pro-abrogation scholars in support of the Abrogation Doctrine. Conflation
means using the evidence of one thing to argue for something else. It is very
prevalent in the abrogation literature, and it falls into two main categories:

10. OTHER EVIDENCE 10.2. CONFLATED EVIDENCE

1. Using evidence of other types of abrogation, e.g., abrogation of previous
scripture, as proof for abrogation of verses in the Quranic script which
is the exclusive scope of the Abrogation Doctrine.

2. Using evidence that uses the Arabic word (naskh - a) for meanings
other than abrogation as proof for abrogation. Tahir [202] notes that
the predecessors who used the word for broader meanings did not err,
but "the ones who erred are those who did not understand what [the
predecessors] meant".

In this section, we put the spotlight on these two categories of conflation which
will affect different pieces of evidence for the rest of this chapter. Al-Zalmi
[123] gives a more detailed account of the different modes of conflation in
a long list, with instances of abrogation claims that exemplify such conflation.

Let us start with the first category of conflation; using evidence of other
types of abrogation to support the Abrogation Doctrine. The doctrine, namely
abrogation of the ruling of a Quranic verse while the verse remains in the
Quranic script, deals with a very specific type of abrogation. Let us look at
a stark example of conflating evidence of other types of abrogation to argue
for the Abrogation Doctrine.

In his book which asserts that it is about abrogation of verses in the
Quranic script (Shula {199]), the author lists five pieces of evidence in support
of abrogation. Three of them are "what Muslims have agreed upon about the
legislation of [different] prophets abrogating each other, and that the legisla-
tion of Muhammad (PBUH) abrogated prior legislation, and what is well known
among them about the abrogation that switched the direction of prayers [from
Jerusalem to Mecca]" (Shula [{199]). The objects of abrogation in these three
examples are not Quranic verses. Rather, they are previous scripture and
Prophetic tradition.

Almost all scholars, including anti-abrogation scholars,* would agree with
these three examples. The problem is that these examples are not relevant
to the Abrogation Doctrine; they have no bearing on whether Quranic verses
have been abrogated. Here are two instances of abrogation that fit these
examples, which we also mentioned in §1.3:

1. Jesus (PBUH) is quoted in the Quran saying:

sce sh Stel Sosa Seals)

4Recall that 'anti-abrogation' in this book is defined as 'against the abrogation of verses
in the Quranic script'. The definition was chosen to avoid conflation with other types of
abrogation.

10. OTHER EVIDENCE 10.2. CONFLATED EVIDENCE

[3:50] And [I have come] confirming what was before me of the
Torah and to make lawful for you some of what was forbidden to you

which is a clear case of abrogation of rulings of a previous religion.

2. There is a narration that quotes the Prophet (PBUH) saying "I [Muhammad]
had forbidden you from visiting the graves; now visit them" which is a clear
case of abrogation of a Prophetic tradition.

Although these are compelling examples of abrogation, their object of ab-
rogation is not a verse in the Quranic script. If one type of abrogation has
occurred, this does not mean that all types of abrogation have occurred.

point to ponder

Unlike all other types of abrogation, the claim of abrogation of
a verse in the Quranic script is unique; the object of abrogation
is a ruling by God with unquestionable authenticity that has been
preserved for us word for word through specific directives of the
Prophet (PBUH), and that we continue to recite regularly.

Conflating the evidence of different types of abrogation is quite prevalent in
the abrogation literature. The second category of conflation is also prevalent.
The use of the word naskh in early narrations oftentimes meant something
other than abrogation, yet these narrations have been widely used as evidence
of abrogation. This has been repeatedly observed by major pro-abrogation
scholars over the centuries. Here are some examples of their comments, in
chronological order:

e Ibn Taymia [172] stated that the predecessors included in the definition of
naskh other situations that needed to be reconciled "such as specializing

a generality and restricting an absolute." (sle03| dni als eneseS).

e Al-Shatibi [95] lists numerous narrations of early Muslims that use the
word naskh where the meaning is other than abrogation, including narra-
tions by Ibn Abbas (RA) and Ibn Masoud (RA) as well as other narrations
by the following generation of scholars.

e Waliyullah [203] enumerates the meanings of naskh other than abroga-
tion that early Muslims employed, and laments "the widening of the
naskh category with them, the plenty of wandering of the mind in it,
and the widening of the circle of disagreement among them."

e Zeid [206] dismisses an abrogation claim by a fellow of the Prophet (PBUH)
who used the word naskh in a situation that is not abrogation, but spe-
cialization. He then asserts that the meaning of naskh for the fellows of

10. OTHER EVIDENCE 10.2. CONFLATED EVIDENCE

the Prophet (PBUH) "includes specialization of the general" (_ja,2%5 jot
ell).

A case in point of this conflation is a narration authenticated by Al-Nasai
[73] about two Quranic verses that deal with people who experience religious
coercion. In the narration, Ibn Abbas (ra) describes the effect of one verse on
the other using the words "so He did naskh and made an exception from that
[ruling]" (2U3 cy (ely aw), which makes it explicit that he used the word
naskh in cases where a verse was not abrogated, but where an exception was
made from its ruling.

Conflating the different meanings of the word naskh by early Muslims is
exhibited in one of the earliest surviving books about abrogation. [bn Sallam
[171], who lived in the second hijri century® defines naskh unambiguously
as abrogation when he describes the effect on the two verses: "the abrogated
among them is not to be used, and the abrogating is the one that God Almighty
mandated on people to follow and to apply." He then lists various 'abrogation'
claims by different early scholars, many of which are clearly not abrogation.

The verifier of that book added a table listing the claims pertaining to
Quranic verses (Ibn Sallam [171]). In the table, he put a column that classifies
the claims according to the "meaning of naskh", including meanings that are
not abrogation.

It was a contemporary scholar of Ibn Sallam who fixed the definition of
naskh to that of abrogation once and for all. Imam Al-Shafei did that as part
of formalizing the Foundations of Deduction in Islam (Zeid [206]). However,
almost all narrations cited as evidence of abrogation belong to the era before
Al-Shafei and use the word naskh for various meanings other than abrogation.

Because of the prevalence of conflated meanings of the word naskh in the
abrogation literature, many authors on the subject include sections dedicated
to differentiating between abrogation and other common notions such as spe-
cialization and exception. Zeid [206] dedicated more than 50 pages in his
book to tackling this issue. In Chapter 3 of the present book, the Elaboration
validation rule was articulated as a direct result of this conflation.

In conclusion, the two categories of conflation about types of abrogation
and meaning of naskh play a key role in parsing the evidence presented by
pro-abrogation scholars. The mention of naskh by itself may signify some type
of elaboration rather than abrogation. If it does signify abrogation, the type
of abrogation may or may not be about verses in the Quranic script. This will
be a recurring theme in the remainder of this chapter.

5Tbn Sallam died in the hijri year 224.

10. OTHER EVIDENCE 10.3. UNANIMITY CLAIM

10.3. Unanimity Claim

One of the consequences of the conflation issues that we presented in the
previous section is the claim of unanimity about the Abrogation Doctrine
that is put forward by some pro-abrogation scholars. Before we address the
substance of this claim, let us briefly discuss the principle of unanimity in
Islamic jurisprudence.

The principle of unanimity (¢ |) asserts that if there is unanimity about
a juristic issue, it becomes a binding rule in the religion that is not subject
to further argument (Shaltout [198]). The principle has had wide agreement
among Muslim scholars over the centuries.°®

However, what constitutes unanimity does not have the same level of agree-
ment. The most common view is that unanimity happens when all scholars
at a certain time agree about a ruling, and that this unanimity precludes
future scholars from disagreeing. There is a variety of other opinions that
consider regional unanimity or sect unanimity, among other restrictions, and
even a debate about whether unanimity is at all possible.

Discussing the unanimity principle itself is beyond the scope of this book.
The only point we are addressing here is whether unanimity has occurred
regarding the validity of the Abrogation Doctrine, namely abrogation of the
ruling but not the recitation of verses in the Quranic script. We will con-
sider the most common definition of unanimity for this purpose; unanimity is
agreement of all Muslim scholars at some point in time.

It is important to understand the technical nature of this topic. The claim
that there is unanimity about something is not the same as saying that the
vast majority of scholars agree with it. In the case of a majority, one can still
reason and debate, and the outcome of that debate is not predetermined. In
the case of unanimity, the principle dictates that the issue in question is no
longer subject to discussion of any kind. It is taken as a tenet of the religion
and cannot be challenged regardless of the reasoning.

With this in mind, let us discuss the claim of unanimity about the Abroga-
tion Doctrine. One example comes from Farghali [136] who asserts unanimity
in a detailed statement:

"abrogation has been established with unanimity of the fellows [of the Prophet
(PBUH)] and /their] followers and those who followed until Abu-Muslim AlI-
Asfahani came and deviated from that unanimity, therefore his opinion must
be expounded till it agrees with the scholars and does not deviate from their
unanimity, otherwise he would be an anomaly whose disagreement is not taken

®There are reservations by some key scholars, e.g., Al-Zahiri [121] who states that "It
is not possible at all that there would be unanimity of the scholars of the community that
is not based on a text" (2 . Je UNI pLale or gee} oS ol &JI oss: Y). Waliyullah [204]
makes a similar statement.

10. OTHER EVIDENCE 10.3. UNANIMITY CLAIM

seriously because unanimity occurred before him."

Two remarks about this claim are worth highlighting:

1. Farghali did not specify what type of abrogation the unanimity is about.
He bundled all types in one statement, thus conflating the issues. The
conflated evidence used by Shula [199] to support abrogation is another
example of this bundling. It is easy to claim unanimity that some type
of abrogation has occurred, e.g., abrogation of previous scripture. It is
also easy to claim unanimity if it is about naskh in its broader use, e.g.,
exception and qualification. However, the only relevant question for us
is whether there is unanimity that there are abrogated verses within the
Quranic script, which is what the Abrogation Doctrine is about.

2. Most pro-abrogation scholars did not claim unanimity like Farghali did.
Many mentioned that it is the majority view, but they did not invoke the
unanimity principle as such. This is worth noting since these scholars
supported the Abrogation Doctrine with various arguments. If they
believed that there was unanimity, it would be the easiest way to support
the doctrine since they knew unanimity would end all arguments as the
doctrine becomes a tenet of the religion that is not subject to further
debate.

The mention of Al-Asfahani in Farghali's statement is inevitable, since
Al-Asfahani gave the first well-publicized anti-abrogation views, so he cannot
be counted in the claimed unanimity about the Abrogation Doctrine. State-
ments about unanimity on abrogation invariably point to the time before
Al-Asfahani's dissenting view came about.

It is worth noting that Al-Asfahani agrees with the abrogation of previous
scripture, and nothing in what we have of his writings addresses the question of
abrogation among Prophetic traditions. His dissenting opinion is specifically
about the abrogation of verses in the Quranic script. Therefore, the unanimity
that Farghali claims Al-Asfahani deviated from must be about the abrogation
of verses in the Quranic script. Before we present evidence that there was
no unanimity on this specific issue, it is worthwhile to address the basis of
Farghali's claim.

What evidence did Farghali offer to establish unanimity? None. In fact,
among all scholars who claimed unanimity on this issue, none has presented
any concrete evidence (Nada {190]). They may have relied on the fact that
they do not know of dissenting views that preceded Al-Asfahani, but they did
not present evidence that none existed.

There is a difference between not knowing of dissent and knowing that there
is no dissent. Al-Zarkashi [126] shows compelling examples. He reports two
instances of distinguished scholars who have not heard of dissenting opinions

10. OTHER EVIDENCE 10.3. UNANIMITY CLAIM

about certain issues that they addressed, then shows that there had in fact
been well-known dissenting views that preceded them. These scholars are of
the highest stature; they are Imam Malik and Imam Al-Shafei, two pillars of
Islamic scholarship. In the case of Imam Malik, he was quite convinced that
there was no dissent and said "and this is among what has no disagreement
between anyone, anywhere" ( sb Vy cll oy dee cn 4d Ge Y Las Ida,
olds).

It is not surprising that even distinguished scholars may not have heard
the opinions of some scholars. We are talking about an era where travel and
communication were slow and primitive. Before Al-Asfahani, there were three
centuries worth of Islamic scholars who spanned vast Islamic territories from
Asia to the Middle East, all the way to Spain.

Not all these scholars are known to us by name, much less published for us
to recognize. Not all of them were famous enough to be quoted in narrations
that survived. Written books were almost unheard of in the first hijri century,
and were poorly preserved in the subsequent two centuries. There were entire
schools of thought that became extinct. Even Al-Asfahani's writings were
barely saved, and he died in the fourth hijri century.

Another factor that complicates tallying the dissenters is the repercussions
they face when they dissent. After witnessing the revolt against an established
scholar as he expressed a dissenting view, Al-Qaradawi [76] laments: "how
many opinions and new, daring views remain imprisoned in the chests of those
who have them, until they die with them without anyone hearing about it or
anyone conveying it to others" (3 dane ghd yay Be lolly ely) oe oS
rer >| lig ws cdo] le on ws bmg Mp5 cll! age).

A case in point is the reaction to the dissent of Al-Asfahani himself about
the Abrogation Doctrine. He has been the object of insults and personal
attacks over the centuries because of his differing opinion. It is understood
why some scholars may choose not to share their dissenting opinion when
they disagree, opting to focus on other areas of their scholarship that are less
controversial. Even in modern times, Al-Ghali [43] recounts the pressures he
personally faced in writing his anti-abrogation book.

With no way of knowing the opinions of every scholar in that era, a claim of
unanimity about the Abrogation Doctrine is entirely baseless. As Jumaa [182]
phrases it, "they claimed unanimity where unanimity cannot be established"
(ale 3 glee ee YL glee \,e-91).

This may be why most pro-abrogation scholars who strongly defended the
Abrogation Doctrine never used a claim of unanimity as part of their defense.
For example, Ibn Al-Jawzi {147] starts his exposition of abrogation by asserting
that it is agreed by the majority (s¢e>) and reasons about it without invoking
the unanimity principle.

10. OTHER EVIDENCE 10.3. UNANIMITY CLAIM

Not only do the claimants of unanimity have no case to support their claim,
but there is also some evidence dating back to the time of the fellows of the
Prophet (PBUH) that suggests that there was no unanimity about the notion
of abrogation of the ruling but not the recitation of Quranic verses. We start
with a narration that was authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35].

In the narration, Abdullah Ibn Al-Zubair (RA) asks Uthman ibn Affan (RA),
who had tasked the transcription of the entire Quran, about verse 2:240,"
saying "the other verse abrogated it, so why do you write it or leave it [in the
Quranic script]?" Uthman (RA) responds: "O son of my brother,® I do not

change anything of it from its place." (Ss arg ale Ge cy Obata fi
Silk 208 SYS 3 YESS 68 ele WIN GES hs ais Yes Sa i as

In analyzing this narration, there is one question to ask here. Does the
narration show that Ibn Al-Zubair (Ra) accepts the notion of abrogation of
the ruling but not the recitation of a Quranic verse? If he did, he would not
ask Uthman (RA) to exclude a verse that he believed was abrogated from the
Quranic script. This is the only point we are making here.

Whether Ibn Al-Zubair (RA) was right or wrong that this particular verse
is abrogated, or that it should be included in the Quranic script, is not the
issue here. The issue is that he disagreed with the notion of an abrogated
verse within the Quranic script. This shows that there was no unanimity on
this issue going back to the era of the fellows of the Prophet (PBUH). That era
was almost three centuries before Al-Asfahani's famous dissent.

There is other scattered evidence of dissent. Al-Jassas [56], who died less
than fifty years after Al-Asfahani died, mentions in his book "/those] who
disallow the existence of abrogation in the Quran mentioned ..." (4 S35

. ola uw al Byes) i) before he articulates their view and counters it
with his own view. He is not talking about Al-Asfahani since their view
that naskh signifies 'copy' not 'abrogate' is different from Al-Asfahani's view
about 'abrogation of previous scripture'. Al-Jassas does not specify who these
dissenters are or when they mentioned this view.

The final example of dissent is more specific about who dissented but less
specific about the type of abrogation that is subject to dissent. It is referred
to briefly in Farghali [136] where he quotes some researchers arguing against
abrogation in the Quran then saying "and this is Ubayy ibn Kaab (RA), and he
belongs to the glorious fellows [of the Prophet (PBUH)], and he does not speak
[approvingly] of abrogation in the Quran".

What is the basis of this assertion? If we look at narrations about abroga-

TVerse 2:240 is about residence rights of widows. See the discussion in §4.1.
8Customary term of endearment, not an actual nephew.

10. OTHER EVIDENCE 10.3. UNANIMITY CLAIM

tion that are attributed to Ubayy (RA), many of them have not been found to
be authentic. However, we have a narration attributed to Umar (RA) that was
authenticated? by Al-Bukhari [35]. In the narration, Umar (RA) says:

"The best reader [of the Quran] among us is Ubayy ... and we leave out of the
words of Ubayy since Ubayy says 'I do not leave out anything I heard from
the Messenger of God (PBUH)', and God Almighty said 'Whatever verse We may

a or cause to be ica ° aS ' Be o an ts ee GLaail, ne Gea
Ugeni 2 iat se at

It is clear that the disagreement between Ubayy (RA) and Umar (RA) is
about abrogation of Quranic verses, rather than verses that were 'caused to

be forgotten'. If they were forgotten, Ubayy (RA) would not be able to include
them even if he wanted to.

at
&
ive]

Si His,

Al-Aini [8] comments on this narration by saying that "Ubayy does not
speak [approvingly] of the abrogation of a thing from the Quran" (Jj,% Y

ol wl OF tit ee 2. Al-Aini further comments that Umar (RA) countered
by quoting verse 2:106 "whatever verse We may abrogate" as evidence that
abrogation happened in some cases.

There are parallels between this narration and the previous narration by
Ibn Al-Zubair (RA). Both Ibn Al-Zubair (RA) and Umar (RA) wanted to keep
abrogated verses out of the Quran. This goes against the core premise of the
Abrogation Doctrine, namely "abrogation of the ruling but not the recitation"
since keeping an abrogated verse out of the Quran means that it will not be
recited.

In the case of Ibn Al-Zubair (RA), he was talking about verse 2:240 that is
claimed abrogated in ruling only. Therefore, the Abrogation Doctrine would
mandate including it in the Quranic script contrary to what he suggested.

In the case of Umar (RA), he used the Quranic passage "Whatever verse
We may abrogate" in 2:106 to argue for excluding the abrogated verses. This
means that he interpreted the passage differently from the pro-abrogation
interpretation of including the abrogated verses but substituting their ruling.

Based on all the points we discussed, the conclusion is that the claim
of unanimity about the validity of the Abrogation Doctrine does not hold.
The claimants did not provide evidence, and there is more than one piece of
counter-evidence as we have shown. Unfortunately, it is not uncommon in
the literature for a claim of unanimity to be made without merit as a way to
settle an argument. For example, in his support of the abrogation claim of

® Although the chain of narrators contains Sufyan Al-Thawri who has been criticized as
we elaborate in §10.4.1, we are taking Al-Bukhari's judgment that the narration is authentic.

i

10. OTHER EVIDENCE 10.4. NARRATIONS BY EARLY MUSLIMS

verse 2:240, Al-Qurtubi [80] asserts: "so unanimity has been attained" (saul
¢ ee PI) that the abrogation claim is valid. It is a matter of record that this
abrogation claim is opposed by many major scholars and is now commonly
rejected (see §4.1).

In this section, we have addressed the claim of unanimity about the Ab-
rogation Doctrine, which would be treated as a binding juristic tool if it were
established. The fact that there is no unanimity does not mean that there
is no majority opinion. In fact, a clear majority of scholars approve of the
Abrogation Doctrine, even if there is now a notable minority that rejects it as
we will detail in §11.3.

How could such a clear majority be all wrong in their opinion? This is
a legitimate question that needs to be addressed in its own right, even when
there is no unanimity and even when the doctrine has been refuted based on
evidence. We will address this question in the dedicated final chapter of this
book (Chapter 12), properly titled How Did This Happen?

10.4 Narrations by Early Muslims

The bulk of the remaining evidence used to support the Abrogation Doctrine
is the body of narrations about abrogation by early Muslims. We have already
discussed three of these narrations in the previous sections. Let us summarize
the conclusions about them.

The narration that separates recitation from ruling (see §10.1) was the only
one that shows an opinion that directly supports the Abrogation Doctrine. In
addition to being an opinion and not being attributed to the Prophet (PBUH) or
his Fellows (RA), its evidentiary value is further compromised because of issues
with its sole narrator, Ibn Abi-Najeeh. The narrations by Ibn Al-Zubair (Ra)
and Umar (RA) in §10.3 had no issues with authentication, but provided no
direct support for the Abrogation Doctrine.

We will go through the remaining narrations to evaluate their evidentiary
value. The bulk of these narrations are attributed to Ibn Abbas (RA), and we
have a subsection dedicated to them. We will address the rest of the narrations
in another subsection. As a special case, we will dedicate the first subsection
to a narration that is cited in almost all the early books about abrogation (the
'doomed and dooming' story), where we will analyze it in detail.

It should be emphasized that none of these narrations quotes the Prophet
(PpBuUH).!° Some quote his Fellows (RA), and others quote the next generation of
early Muslims. In our rebuttal of the evidentiary value of these narrations,

10There are purported Prophetic narrations, with questionable authenticity, that are often
cited by pro-abrogation scholars which address verses that were not included in the Quranic
script (see side note 33), hence they are not relevant to the Abrogation Doctrine.

10. OTHER EVIDENCE 10.4. NARRATIONS BY EARLY MUSLIMS

there are three compelling issues:

1. Conflation. This issue which we discussed in detail in §10.2 strongly af-
fects every narration by early Muslims that uses the Arabic word naskh.
The issue also affects narrations that use more specific words for abro-
gation but do not state that the object of abrogation is a verse in the
Quranic script.

2. Authenticity. In many cases, pro-abrogation scholars put forward nar-
rations of questionable authenticity that support the Abrogation Doc-
trine. A case in point is the narration attributed to Ali (RA) about verse
58:12 that we discussed in detail in §5.1.1. There are many other exam-
ples. While we normally do not address narrations that have not been
found to be authentic by narration scholars, we will have to address some
of these narrations that are widely cited for completeness.

3. Authority. Narrations by early Muslims that do not quote the Prophet
(PBUH) directly, even if they quote his Fellows (RA), may be expressing
their personal opinions which would not be binding. The fact that these
opinions are not binding is agreed upon even by pro-abrogation schol-
ars, e.g., Al-Amidi [18]. Some pro-abrogation scholars go further; they
specifically require an authentic quote from the Prophet (PBUH) himself
to accept any claim of abrogation (Zeid [206] and Al-Arid {20]).

These three issues, and particularly the first one about conflation, will be
repeated often as we discuss individual narrations and rebut their evidentiary
value. We will not repeat the narrations already addressed in Part II when we
discussed individual abrogation claims.

10.4.1 'Doomed and Dooming' Story

We start with a narration that merits its own section, not because of its
evidentiary value, but because of its prominence in almost every book about
abrogation since the early centuries. For example, it appears on the first page
of the book by Al-Andalusi [19], on the third page of the book by Ibn Al-Jawzi
[148], and on the second page of the book by Al-Karmi [60].

There is usually a comment in these books that the narration proves the
importance of knowing the abrogated and abrogating verses in the Quran, so
it is considered evidence for the Abrogation Doctrine. We will address two
questions here: Is this narration authentic? If so, what does it signify?

e Is this narration authentic? The most reliable version of the narration
appears in Abu-Khaythama [5], a book that was verified by narration scholar
Al-Albani who authenticated that narration in a footnote. In the narration,

10. OTHER EVIDENCE 10.4. NARRATIONS BY EARLY MUSLIMS

it is reported that Ali (RA) "passed by a storyteller and said 'can you tell the
abrogating from the abrogated?' He answered 'no' so he [Ali (RA)] said: 'you
are doomed, and you are dooming [those who are listening to you]. " (Za\& 4
ESLaly ESle : JUV: due Cell of ant) Sal : jl .). It is perhaps the
stern warning in the words 'doomed' and 'dooming' that makes this narration
frequently cited in the context of how important abrogation is.

AlAlbani, who authenticated this version, is a modern scholar. Some ear-
lier scholars had reservations about two persons in the chain of narrators.
Sufyan Al-Thawri is classified by narration scholar Ibn Hajar [158] as an im-
poser,'! and described by Al-Suyuti [103] as 'famous for imposing'. The other
narrator is Abu-Hasseen who Ibn Hajar [157] says he may have imposed.

There are various other versions of this narration of questionable authen-
ticity. Not only are there issues with the chains of narrators, but there are
also three issues in the texts of these narrations that raise further doubt about
their authenticity as a whole:

1. In some versions, the story involves Ibn Abbas (RA), not Ali (RA). It is not
credible that the same exact event with such a unique dialog happened
twice with two different persons.

2. There is also confusion about who the storyteller was; more than one
name was mentioned.

3. Sometimes the person being addressed is not a storyteller, but a judge.
This aspect is particularly suspect since the Arabic words for storyteller
(28 - Qass) and judge (.24 - Qadd) have distinct pronunciations, but
have identical script except for a single dot. This may suggest that
someone in the chain of narrators misread it from a document rather
than actually hearing it from the person he claims to be narrating from.

Anyway, we at least have the above version of the narration that is somewhat
reliable. We will focus on this version when we analyze what the narration sig-
nifies and what evidentiary value it may provide in support of the Abrogation
Doctrine.

e What does the narration signify? First, let us elaborate on the notion
of a storyteller. In Islamic tradition, storytellers are people who tell religious
stories to their audiences, mainly about the Prophet (PBUH) and his Fellows (Ra).
Storytellers are not highly regarded in the literature, as there are persistent
accusations that they lie to make the stories more interesting and appeal to
their audiences. There are books written about their lies, including one by

11 As mentioned earlier, the term 'imposers' is used to describe those who quote someone
as if they heard the quote from him when in fact they did not.

10. OTHER EVIDENCE 10.4. NARRATIONS BY EARLY MUSLIMS

Ibn Taymia [174] that focuses on made-up narrations that storytellers falsely
attributed to the Prophet (PBUH).

What was the reason that Ali (RA) asked the storyteller about the abrogated
and abrogating? It is not clear from the wording of the narration, but what
is relevant to the Abrogation Doctrine is whether the question pertains to
abrogated verses in the Quranic script or to something else. This cannot be
ascertained from the wording of the narration.

However, we have a clue from what is known about storytellers. As we have
just mentioned, storytellers tell stories about the Prophet (PBUH) and often
invoke narrations, so this would be consistent with the abrogation question
being about Prophetic narrations. Al-Jaabari [53] talks about the reprimand
of storytellers who do not know the abrogated and abrogating, and the context
he mentions is interpreting the Quran and Prophetic traditions.

In addition to the rationale that the abrogation type involving a storyteller
would be about Prophetic narrations, nothing in the wording that Ali (RA) used
would indicate that he was talking about the abrogation of Quranic verses.
Furthermore, naskh may well be used for meanings other than abrogation,
as was customary in that era. Counting this as evidence for the Abrogation
Doctrine is a leap; another manifestation of conflated evidence.

What is striking about the 'doomed and dooming' narration is how promi-
nently it is featured in pro-abrogation books as if the evidence it provides for
the Abrogation Doctrine is strong. Between the questionable authenticity of
the various versions of the narration, the vagueness of what type of abrogation
it is talking about, and whether naskh is used in the sense of abrogation, the
evidentiary value of the narration is much weaker than the importance it is
given.

This may be the reason why the most comprehensive book about abroga-
tion in the Quran, written by pro-abrogation scholar Zeid [206] in the modern
era, cited and sourced numerous narrations about abrogation, but did not
mention the 'doomed and dooming' narration at all; not once in almost 1000
pages of material.

10.4.2 Narrations by Ibn Abbas (ra)

The narrations about abrogation that are attributed to Ibn Abbas (Ra) out-
number the rest of the narrations on the subject by all other early Muslims.
There are issues with the authenticity of many of these narrations. For exam-
ple, Zeid [206] provides a lengthy critique of the credibility of Al-Kalbi and
Muaqatil ibn Sulayman, two of the narrators of Ibn Abbas (RA) about abroga-
tion. Similarly, Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] laments that narrators change the wording
of what they quote according to their understanding as he rejects a narration
attributed to Ibn Abbas (Ra).

10. OTHER EVIDENCE 10.4. NARRATIONS BY EARLY MUSLIMS

When we consider only those narrations that have been authenticated by
narration scholars, Ibn Abbas (Ra) still has the majority of them. For exam-
ple, among the authenticated narrations about a specific abrogation claim in
Appendix A.3, Ibn Abbas (RA) has 67 out of 83.

Given his stature as a revered fellow of the Prophet (PBUH), this body of
narrations is a major part of the evidence that pro-abrogation scholars use in
support of the Abrogation Doctrine. The main issue that diminishes the evi-
dentiary value of these narrations is conflation; Ibn Abbas (RA) routinely used
the word naskh to mean any amendment that a verse makes about another,
such as exception or qualification which are not abrogation.

The evidence of this is overwhelming, including the explicit evidence that
we mentioned before: Al-Nasai [73] reports a narration by Ibn Abbas (RA)
saying "so He did naskh and made an exception from that [ruling]" (Ges
US oy (ely) in an abrogation claim of verse 16:106 . This is not the only
instance. Abu-Dawoud [3] reports another narration attributed to Ibn Abbas
(RA) about an abrogation claim of verse 24:31 where he uses the exact same
words.!?

Numerous scholars pointed this out and took it into consideration as they
evaluated the opinions of Ibn Abbas (RA) about many abrogation claims. As
pro-abrogation scholar Zeid [206] phrases it,

"it is not of scholarly fidelity at all to quote a narration by Ibn Ab-
bas (RA) —or anyone else— in which he states that a verse abrogated
another although there is no relation between the two verses other
than one being an exception from the other, then use that to de-
duce the abrogation of one verse by the other in the sense that has
later become the conventional definition of abrogation."

Conflation, mainly, but also questionable authenticity and other issues
caused a number of pro-abrogation scholars to go against narrations attributed
to Ibn Abbas (RA) about abrogation. For example,

e Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] rejects the abrogation claim of verse 4:71 even after
including a narration that supports it by Ibn Abbas (RA), as he casts
doubt about its content. He rejects another narration claiming abroga-
tion of verse 9:39 that is attributed to Ibn Abbas (RA) and two other early
Muslim scholars (Ibn Al-Jawzi [147]). He does not mince words as he
describes the opinion expressed in the narration as "this is not correct"
(qeme uv? '4s), and points out that there is no conflict that warrants
a claim of abrogation.

12The verifiers of the book mentioned in a footnote that the narration about verse 24:31
is rated 'sound' (.,.>); not quite the 'authentic' level of the narration about verse 16:106.

10. OTHER EVIDENCE 10.4. NARRATIONS BY EARLY MUSLIMS

e Another claim of abrogation, that of the forgiveness aspect of verses
25:68-70, was supported by narrations of Ibn Abbas (RA) that assert that
verse 4:93 is the final word in the matter (thus superseding forgiveness).
However, this conclusion is rejected by most pro-abrogation scholars!®
even though two of these narrations were authenticated by Al-Bukhari
[35] and Muslim [189].

e An entire list of narrations that are attributed to Ibn Abbas (RA) are
dismissed by Al-Shatibi [95], one by one, based on the conflation issue
and other issues such as the object of abrogation being a statement of
fact, not a ruling (see the Facts validation rule).

e Even earlier scholars made similar remarks. Makki [184] concludes that
there are many statements attributed to Ibn Abbas (RA) where exception
is presented as abrogation which is "figurative, not true" (444> Y jle).

Key Point

y The use of the word naskh for meanings other than abrogation was
a legitimate linguistic use in the era of early Muslims, including
Ibn Abbas (RA). What is not legitimate is for others to use narrations
from that era that include the word naskh as evidence of abrogation.

The conflation issue colors all narrations about specific abrogation claims.
We have already discussed the most important of these narrations when we
analyzed individual abrogation claims in detail in Part II of this book. We will
now address two narrations by Ibn Abbas (RA) about abrogation in general.

The first narration reports the interpretation by Ibn Abbas (RA) of the
first part of verse 2:106 "Whatever verse We may abrogate". He interprets it
as 'whatever verse We may substitute' (Al-Tabari [107]). He interprets the
next part of the verse "or cause to be forgotten" as 'or leave it, not substitute
it' (Al-Tabari {107]). Nothing in this wording separates the ruling from the
recitation, so no evidence for the Abrogation Doctrine can be inferred.

This observation is not unique to the interpretation of verse 2:106 by
Ibn Abbas (RA). In fact, other than the interpretation attributed to the fellows
of Ibn Masoud that was discussed in detail in §10.1, none of the interpreta-
tions of that era separates the ruling from the recitation. To the contrary,
some go against that separation as we will present in the evidence against the
Abrogation Doctrine in Chapter 11.

The second narration is cited by Al-Tabari [107] as he interprets part of
verse 2:269 "... and whoever is given wisdom has certainly been given much

13See the discussion in §7.6.

10. OTHER EVIDENCE 10.4. NARRATIONS BY EARLY MUSLIMS

Z oh tye

good..." [fo4: 3,41] rf ae Kas" re 3, aos 25h ye cy 8 ». In the
narration, Ibn Abbas (RA) interprets 'wisdom' to mean "knowing the Quran,
its abrogating and abrogated, ...". where he uses the word naskh that was
translated to abrogation. Given the customary uses of the word naskh by
Ibn Abbas (Ra), this could mean 'knowing the verses that amend other verses'
through specialization, exception, etc. Certainly, the wording does not provide
evidence for the Abrogation Doctrine.

This last narration is somewhat similar to the version of the 'doomed and
dooming' story that is attributed to Ibn Abbas (ra) (§10.4.1) in that it shows
the importance of knowing about 'naskh'. Authenticity issues aside, there is
no evidence that either narration uses that word to mean actual abrogation
rather than other forms of qualification.

10.4.3 Other Narrations

We now address the rest of the narrations cited by pro-abrogation scholars as
evidence for the Abrogation Doctrine. For some of these narrations, it is clear
that they do not address the abrogation of verses within the Quranic script.
A famous example is a narration attributed to Aisha (RA) where she mentions
verses about nursing a child that are not in the Quranic script (Muslim [189]).
Among other examples are narrations attributed to Ubayy (RA) about verses
that are no longer in Quranic Chapter 33 - Gli 8), (Ibn Hanbal [160]).!4
We will not go through these narrations here since they are not relevant to
the Abrogation Doctrine as we defined it.

The remaining narrations by early Muslims that arguably provide evidence
for the Abrogation Doctrine mostly belong to the generation that followed the
fellows of the Prophet (PBUH). Respected scholar Mujahid belongs to that group
and he is often cited in matters of abrogation.

The verifier of the book that collected the exegesis of Mujahid [187] in-
cludes five abrogation claims in narrations that are attributed to Mujahid and
concludes that Mujahid counts "specifying a generality, detailing a brief, re-
stricting an absolute, and emphasizing a point, counts all of that as naskh, the
same way the scholars of his era do." (« slleo)| Sypiig «formed! oan cole) omar
Oar clole ols \ous e. ale cen ale GUS 525 oN AS 954).

Mujahid died at the onset of the second hijri century. He had interacted
with Ibn Abbas (RA) and was still alive when Imam Abu-Hanifa was born, so
he spanned an early era in Islamic scholarship. The above statement "counts
all of that as naskh, the same way the scholars of his era do" would cover
almost all narrations about abrogation by early Muslims. Thus the conflation

14These narrations have questionable authenticity and will be discussed under other types
of abrogation in Appendix A.7.

10. OTHER EVIDENCE 10.4. NARRATIONS BY EARLY MUSLIMS

issue that was prominent in the narrations of Ibn Abbas (RA) in the previous
subsection applies as much to the narrations of this subsection; perhaps even
more because of an added facet to this conflation.

This facet is using naskh for "emphasizing a point" that was included in
the list of meanings that abrogation narrations of that era use. This is corrob-
orated by Al-Nahhas [71] when he dismisses a narration about an abrogation
claim of verse 42:5. He postulates that what the narration meant by naskh
is in fact 'copy' not 'abrogate'. Linguistically, naskh can certainly be used to
mean 'copy', but conflating 'copy' with 'abrogate' is extreme in the sense that
they point in opposite directions; 'copy' implies that the verse was reiterated
rather than annulled.

Finally, other than the narrations that were discussed in Part II, we are
now left with two narrations by early Muslims that address abrogation in
general, which pro-abrogation scholars have put forward as evidence of the
Abrogation Doctrine.

The first narration is attributed to a fellow of the Prophet (PBUH). Huza-
yfa Ibn Al-Yaman (RA) asserts that anyone who issues edicts for people must
be qualified, and one of the qualifications is to "know the abrogated in the
Quran" (Al-Nahhas [71]). Again, the word naskh is used and Huzayfa (RA)
may be talking about verses that were qualified by other verses. This narra-
tion is another example of the theme about the importance of knowing naskh.
However, like the other narrations, it does not provide specific evidence that
it is talking about abrogation.

The second narration was authenticated by Muslim [189] and quotes Ibn Al-
Shakhir saying "the Prophet (PBUH) had narrations abrogate each other like
parts of the Quran abrogate each other," using the word naskh which we

a

translated as 'abrogate' (LS (Las 4235 hus ALY < vy Agle Aly 'le alll He al
Leer ao Sia eH). Ibn Al-Shakhir was not a Fellow of the Prophet (PBUH);
he died in the early second hijri century. In the narration, he is expressing his
own view, and he may well be using naskh not in the sense of abrogation as
was common in his generation.

ue~)

In this chapter, we have presented a rebuttal for evidence put forward
by pro-abrogation scholars from sources other than the Quran in support of
the Abrogation Doctrine. This complements the previous chapter where we
discussed evidence from the Quran itself. In the next chapter, we look at the
other side of the coin, namely the evidence against the Abrogation Doctrine
from all sources. In the final chapter, we address the compelling question of
how a doctrine that is readily refutable managed to survive in Islamic thought
for more than fourteen centuries.

Chapter 11

Counter-Evidence

The refutation of all abrogation claims in Part II proved the case in principal:
the Abrogation Doctrine is not valid. The goal of Part III has been to alleviate
concerns about other evidence outside of individual abrogation claims that
seems relevant to whether the doctrine is valid.

In the previous two chapters, we addressed concerns that the pro-abrogation
camp may have about evidence for the doctrine; how the doctrine could not
be valid given that evidence. In this chapter, we address concerns that the
anti-abrogation camp has had all along about evidence against the doctrine;
how the doctrine could be valid given that evidence.

Counter-evidence to the Abrogation Doctrine comes from the Quran itself,
from a Prophetic narration, and from the lack of designation of abrogated
verses. We will present each of these elements in detail. In addition, we
will highlight the many anti-abrogation voices after having given the pro-
abrogation voices the lion's share of our attention in all previous chapters.

It should be emphasized that we are not trying to prove anything here. All
the proof that is needed to refute the Abrogation Doctrine has already been
done in Part II.

11.1 Quranic Verses

Whether you accept the Abrogation Doctrine or reject it, there is no dispute
that the doctrine has implications about the Quran. It implies that there
is a conflict between some verses within the Quranic script that cannot be
reconciled, otherwise none would be abrogated. It also implies the annulment
of some verses as a result, so they need not be followed any longer.

11. COUNTER-EVIDENCE 11.1. QURANIC VERSES

The question here is not whether there is wisdom that would justify these
implications. We are only addressing the fact that these are inescapable im-
plications of the Abrogation Doctrine, for better or for worse.

Because of this, if there is evidence that no conflict exists between verses
or that no verses are annulled, that would be evidence against the Abrogation
Doctrine. It turns out that such evidence exists, actually within statements
in the Quran itself. We will discuss these Quranic statements in detail in this
section.

A third implication that we will also discuss is the uncertainty that the
Abrogation Doctrine has caused, and what the Quran says about such uncer-
tainty. A fourth piece of evidence from the Quran, verse 22:52 about Satanic
cast, will be discussed in its own section (§11.4) because of its unique role.

11.1.1 Verse Against Conflict

The first implication of the Abrogation Doctrine that we address here is that
some verses in the Quranic script would have to have irreconcilable conflict.
Otherwise, there would be no reason to invoke abrogation. As we have seen
in Part IJ, the conflicts are only perceived and can be reconciled upon careful
analysis of what the verses say precisely.

If the Abrogation Doctrine had held, the implication would have been that
such conflicts exist and are real. There is a statement in the Quran itself that
goes against this implication, hence it goes against the Abrogation Doctrine
in principle,

BIE 45 1555) ail gE ale Je OF Fy STA 3,15 WEI p

IAC: Ll] € eS
[4:82] Don't they ponder the Quran? If it had been from [any]
other than God, they would have found in it much disagreement.

First, a linguistic remark about not finding "much disagreement" in the
Quran. Taken literally as written in English, that would seem to imply that
there may still be some disagreement. In Arabic, however, the negation of em-
phasis functions as an emphasis of the negation, so "not much disagreement"
actually signifies "no disagreement at all".

For example, [14 : e241] if Gar 385 of Leg» [19:64] ".. and God is not
'very forgetful' ". Here, the phrase 'not very forgetful' semantically signifies
'not forgetful at all', which is obvious since this is about the Almighty. Another

example is [£1 : 2123] rf eer ele 385 43 «. ® [41:46] "... and God is not

'very unjust' toward the worshippers", which obviously means He is 'not unjust

11. COUNTER-EVIDENCE 11.1. QURANIC VERSES

at all. The same construct is sometimes used in English, e.g., saying "I am
not very happy about this" to mean "I am not happy at all". It is sometimes
called 'emphasis by understatement'.

Thus, verse 4:82 is saying that the Quran does not have disagreements at
all and that those who ponder what it says will arrive at that conclusion. The
perception of conflicts is because of a failure to think deeply about the verses
to see that there is no real conflict. Indeed, some abrogation claims need
that level of deep thinking to understand the subtleties that lead to proper
reconciliation, as we have seen in the 10 claims we discussed from §3.4 to §6.1
for example.

Although this is an anti-abrogation view, the words of some pro-abrogation
exegetes when they interpret verse 4:82 align with this view:

e Al-Shaarawi [92] states that "the contradiction is in your understanding;
the contradiction is not in the Quran" (_23bs)| (ply cil Sagi 2 pastel

ola (3).

e Al-Khazen [62] interprets the verse and concludes "shouldn't they cog-
itate on the Quran so that they know that there is no contradiction in

it" (48 ile pane Lad Tall Boy Sie 38),

Other pro-abrogation exegetes make statements that focus on the conclusion
that there are no conflicts within the Quran:

e Ibn Kathir [163] interprets the verse, saying that the Quran has "neither
contrast nor conflict" (_2)b8 Yy 3L23 Y).

e Ibn Atiya [154] interprets the verse, stating that the Quran is pure from
"contradiction and negation that cannot be reunited" (6S) _slally ail

axe Sey Y. Al-Thaalibi [111] concurs, using the same words.

e Al-Tabari [107] quotes two statements as he interprets the verse. The
first statement says that if the Quran had been from someone other than
God, "its rulings would have had disagreement" (a\S>i aks). The
specific mention of 'rulings' which are what the conflicts are about in the
Abrogation Doctrine is notable. The second statement says that "the
Quran does not have a part that belies another part, and does not have

a part that contradicts another part" (283 Ys hier digas pase Y owl o
Therefore, there is clearly a legitimate interpretation of the verse that goes
against the implication of the Abrogation Doctrine that there is irreconcilable

conflict between some verses in the Quranic script.

11. COUNTER-EVIDENCE 11.1. QURANIC VERSES

11.1.2 Verses Against Annulment

If conflict is the cause for invoking abrogation, annulment is the effect of it.
Annulment of a verse means that there is no longer a mandate to follow it.
Regardless of what the cause is, the end result is that the Quranic script would
have verses that are no longer valid. This is another inescapable implication
of the Abrogation Doctrine.

Al-Asfahani was the first known scholar to raise objections to the Abro-
gation Doctrine based on this implication. He interpreted a specific Quranic
statement as excluding the possibility that there would be verses in the Quranic
script that are no longer valid.

sls Jo 5855 ob bo ull ash Y @ hye Ses By. >
[se-4): Ls ...

[41:41-42] ... And indeed, it is a mighty Book. Battel does not
come to it from before or after ...

We left the word 'bis (battel) in the verse untranslated because its signif-
icance warrants careful treatment. It is usually translated to 'falsehood' and
its opposite, 353! (hagg) is translated to 'truth'. The linguistic origin of the
two words, however, provides an added insight.

Linguistically, the contrast between the two words is based on whether
something would last (haqq) or not (battel). The use of these words for 'truth'
and 'falsehood' stems from the fact that the truth lasts while falsehood doesn't.
The Arabic dictionary Standards of the Language (4aUl _ la») describes battel
as "something being gone, and lack of its staying and persistence" - ¢,.4J\ ols

aisy aS 4l5y (Al-Qazwini [79]).

When something is abrogated, it is no longer valid so it becomes battel.
This is a linguistic matter, not just an anti-abrogation view, and it is actually
supported by a number of pro-abrogation scholars:

1. In his interpretation of "battel does not come to [the Quran] from before
or after ..." [41:42], Al-Razi [83] states explicitly that "Al-Asfahani is
justified in using this verse as evidence that abrogation in [the Quran]
does not exist because abrogation is annulment so if abrogation had
entered it, battel would have come to it from after, and that conflicts

with this verse" (&N\ oie G¥6 be).

2. Al-Nasafi [72] gives a pointed interpretation of verse 41:42. He says that
it means that the Quran does not have "substitution or contradiction ...

in any facet" (o>9)\ oe amy --. gailall gl bull).

11. COUNTER-EVIDENCE 11.1. QURANIC VERSES

3. As Al-Zurqani [128] tries to rebut the evidentiary value of this verse,
he states that it is not evidence against all types of abrogation, but he
concedes that it is evidence against "abrogation of the ruling but not
the recitation" (8sY3\_ g4> rod a) which is the only concern of the
Abrogation Doctrine. Al-Arid [20] and Ismail [181] concur, using the
same words, and Farghali [136] concedes the same point.

4. The understanding of battel this way is evident in Al-Tabari's inter-
pretation of another verse, 22:52. The verse describes another act of
abrogation, and Al-Tabari [107] uses a verb form of battel (4lbi|) to char-
acterize what was done to the object of that abrogation. Al-Zamakhshari
[124], Al-Thaalabi [110], Al-Qurtubi [80], Al-Baydawi [31], Al-Baghawi
[23], Al-Khazen [62], Al-Nasafi [72], and Al-Maqdesi [68] interpret it the
same way. No doubt about this understanding.

Other pro-abrogation scholars offer different interpretations of battel in this
verse, e.g., Zeid [206]. However, the above interpretation follows the principle
of "taking the absolute of the language" (4sU\ alia Js) which means that
the linguistic meaning of the words takes precedence over alternative inter-
pretations (M. Al-Zahabi [118]). What is clear is that we have a legitimate
interpretation of verses 41:41-42 that goes against the annulment implication
of the Abrogation Doctrine.

There is another aspect of annulment that is also countered by a Quranic
statement. Since annulment in the Abrogation Doctrine applies only to the
ruling of the abrogated verse, not its recitation, Muslims regularly recite these
abrogated verses as a normal part of worship even as they intend not to follow
them (Al-Zalmi [123]). This goes against

[vr RAN € Slats V6 125 Gl ail Lc his 5
[61:3] It is greatly detested in the sight of God that you say what
you do not do.

First, we establish that the statement against saying something and not do-
ing it is general. Again, the generality is what "taking the absolute of the
language" (dal) Glew, JéY\) dictates, since the wording of the verse is not
restricted. However, the context of the verse has to do with fighting in par-
ticular, so do exegetes interpret the verse in the more general sense? We have
alluded to that in §10.1, but here are more details.

1. Exegete Ibn Atiya [154] is explicit about the generality of verse 61:3 as
he comments on other specialized interpretations, saying "the ruling in
this verse remains for all times, and everyone who says what he does not
do would be detested, contaminated in what he says" (Sl 4Y\ ols SS

11. COUNTER-EVIDENCE 11.1. QURANIC VERSES

AAS Gis cytos 54d cet Ve Sp oe ISy Cal ple), which Al-Thaalibi
[111] quotes in his exegesis as well.

2. Qutb [191] analyzes the context of the verse as he interprets it, and states
that what the verse says is broader than this context, and goes to "its
general indications" (4ldl GY Jo» JI).

'

3. Ibn Ashur [153] does a linguistic analysis of the preceding verse "... why

Sir Pe ue ot Be
do you say what you do not do?" [61:2] € 6 9lasd YEG Pex é -
[S : 44)\] and concludes that the prohibition on saying what one does
not do is general, regardless of any reason or any excuse (4Y si goa SY
ile).

4. As Al-Zamakhshari [124] interprets the verse, he cites a story about
an early Muslim who was asked to give a talk and responded "do you
order me to say what I do not do so I can expedite being detested
by God?" The story does not restrict his statement to any particular
context. Al-Qurtubi [80] and Al-Nasafi [72] cite the same story.

5. Al-Tabari [107] interpreted verses 61:2-3 in the generality that the Quranic
words convey, saying: "why do you say something then not follow it up
with deed? Your deeds are different from your words. God greatly
detests your saying something that you don't do."

These are all pro-abrogation exegetes, so they do not have a hidden agenda
against the Abrogation Doctrine. The verse is explicit in what it says, and
they recognize that the wording does not restrict its scope. In its generality,
it goes against abrogation of the ruling but not the recitation, so it provides
evidence against the Abrogation Doctrine.

11.1.3 Verse Against Uncertainty

The final implication of the Abrogation Doctrine that we address here is an un-
certainty that the doctrine caused. It is the uncertainty about which verses in
the Quranic script are valid and which verses are not. Uncertainty is a sepa-
rate concern from annulment since it is not an argument about whether verses
are annulled, but about not knowing which verses are annulled. Here are some
manifestations of this uncertainty.

First, there is the sheer number of abrogation claims and the broad dis-
agreements about them over the centuries. There are 432 claims that we have
found in scholarly books, as tallied in Appendix A.2. There are vastly different
views by pro-abrogation scholars about which claims are valid. It is a matter
of record that every single abrogation claim has been rejected by at least one
recognized pro-abrogation scholar, as we have shown in §3.1.

11. COUNTER-EVIDENCE 11.1. QURANIC VERSES

Second, there are the narrations about abrogation claims. Even narrations
that are rated authentic (Appendix A.3) contribute to that uncertainty. For
example, there are multiple authentic narrations both for and against the
abrogation of verse 2:184. There is also an authentic narration by Ibn Abbas
(RA) asserting that verse 2:234 abrogated verse 2:240 and another authentic
narration by him asserting abrogation the other way around, with verse 2:240
abrogating verse 2:234 instead.

So the question naturally arises: which verses do we know for certain are
abrogated, and which verses do we know for certain are not abrogated? The
reality of the Abrogation Doctrine is that many verses are claimed abrogated
by some scholars while claimed unabrogated by other scholars. If we do not
know for certain whether these verses are abrogated, we have uncertainty
about their validity. There is no escaping that conclusion.

Al-Zahiri [121] addresses this issue and states unequivocally that such un-
certainty cannot possibly exist, saying "It cannot at all be that God Almighty
left us in blindness and loss, not knowing forever is this ruling abrogated or
not abrogated? This is something we were spared from ever occurring" (55-4 Y

ab gh eget Seal Min fo lad ger os Y Bey chee (3 LG dhe abl Sol Sa
jai 4S¢b9 lal as a Ine Se pnw). Zeid [206] quotes this statement by Al-Zahiri and
concurs with it. Both are pro-abrogation scholars, so they are not just trying
to set an impossible standard in order to dismiss the Abrogation Doctrine.

The Quran itself concurs. Let us quote the relevant verse first, then discuss
its interpretation carefully.

[68a € ad C55 Y SESS GUS

[2:2] This Book - there is no uncertainty in it ...

First, a linguistic remark. The Arabic word rayb (~., - uncertainty) in the
verse is sometimes translated to 'doubt' instead, though there is another Ara-
bic word for 'doubt' (shakk - £14). The difference is subtle, where rayb is closer
to the heart (Al-Shayea [98]) and shakk is closer to the mind, hence our choice
of 'uncertainty' as it is somewhat closer to the heart. However, the choice of
the English word will not affect the analysis here, which is based on how the
Arab exegete interpreted the verse.

What does this verse signify? Ibn Ashur [153] includes an interpretation of
"no uncertainty in it" as a reference to the content of the Quran. There are no
statements within the Quran that "contradict one another or deviate from the
truth" (44>J) sey es" 4 [ee aly es). This interpretation addresses
the type of uncertainty that we are discussing here, namely the uncertainty
about what is valid and what is not valid within the text of the Quran. There
is no such uncertainty. All of it is valid.

11. COUNTER-EVIDENCE 11.2. OTHER ELEMENTS

This also sheds light on a hypothetical question posed in side note 11.
Given that all abrogation claims have been refuted, could there still be verses in
the Quranic script outside of the known abrogation claims that are abrogated
but we simply don't know them? The answer is that there could not be,
because verse 2:2 promises no such uncertainty.

It should be noted that exegetes also have another interpretation of this
verse. Some interpret the uncertainty to be about the authenticity of the
Quran as a whole rather than about the verses within the Quran. However,
the 'within' interpretation is linguistically justified. Exegete Ibn Ashur [153]
specifically concludes that both meanings are intended.!

Therefore, when the verse says "This Book - there is no uncertainty |in it)..."
[2:2] [8:3 aN] & «.. And C35 Y GUESS! GUS, the highlighted part linguistically

can signify 'within the Quran' which would mean that the Quran does not have
uncertainty within its content. That includes uncertainty about which verses
are valid and which are not, an uncertainty that the Abrogation Doctrine has
created by opening the door for claiming abrogation in what was not explicitly

designated by God or His Messenger as abrogated.

The conclusion is that this is another case where a legitimate interpreta-
tion of a Quranic statement goes against the implications of the Abrogation
Doctrine. In this case, the implication is about uncertainty in the Quran.
In the other cases, it was about annulment and conflict in the Quran. The
concern that these implications go against Quranic assertions is alleviated by
recognizing that the doctrine that led to these implications is not valid, as
Part IT has proved.

11.2 Other Elements

In addition to Quranic verses that are consistent with the anti-abrogation view,
other elements support this view. We will focus here on two compelling ele-
ments. One is an authentic Prophetic narration against the notion of Quranic
conflict. The other is the lack of designation of abrogated verses. The accounts
of these two elements will be brief, but significant.

11.2.1 Prophetic Narration

There are no authentic Prophetic narrations that support any claims of abro-
gation of a verse in the Quranic script, as the complete tally in Appendix A.3
shows. There is, however, an authentic Prophetic narration whose statement
negates the possibility of a conflict within the Quranic script. Conflict has

lTbn Ashur has a strong emphasis on intricate linguistic details throughout his exegesis.

11. COUNTER-EVIDENCE 11.2. OTHER ELEMENTS

been the basis of every abrogation claim that has been put forward.

We saw in §11.1.1 how verse 4:82 of the Quran itself negates the possibility
of such conflict. When interpreting this verse, some exegetes such as Ibn
Kathir [163] cite a version of the Prophetic narration in question.

An authenticated version of this narration appears in Ibn Majah [166], one
of the six authoritative books of narrations. Another version was belatedly
authenticated by Al-Albani, a modern narrations scholar, in Ibn Abi-Alizz
[141]. There are other versions with lesser authentication levels.

All versions of this narration report a story about Muslims who were having
a debate close to where the Prophet (PBUH) was at the time. The different sides
of the debate were using verses from the Quran to substantiate their views,
thus the debate created the appearance of conflict between these verses. The
prophet (PBUH) heard this and was quite unhappy about it.2 He came out and
addressed those who were debating.

The key statement by the Prophet (PBUH) that pertains to the current
discussion is that the Quran did not descend from Heaven "with parts of it

belying each other, but rather confirming each other" (2% ans cl \3 o OL al 5

Zen) aan) a ab La). In the other authenticated version of the narration,
the Prophet (PBUH) is reprimanding those who "shoot down parts of the Quran
with other parts" (_2x% 42x OLB 5228).

It is notable that in the first version, the factual aspect that there are no
conflicts within the Quran is stated. The second version disparages those who
seek such conflict. The relevance to the Abrogation Doctrine is unmistakable,
both in terms of what the doctrine asserts and how it is practiced.

The pointed statement of this Prophetic narration is also used by some
scholars even without citing the narration. For instance, as he interprets verse
4:82 that negates conflict within the Quran, Al-Tabari [107] includes a quote
that uses similar words to the narration. The quote goes on to say that what
is to blame is the limitations of people's minds and their ignorance.

point to ponder

The premise that the Quran does not have conflicts should have
been self-evident for every Muslim. A Divine revelation cannot
have contradictions. It is remarkable that there is a need to ar-
gue for that. Had it not been for the Abrogation Doctrine, the
issue would not have been raised at all. Everything we said in
this chapter that negates such conflicts would have been seen as
a tautology.

Tn one version, the narrator described the anger of the Prophet (PBUH) in a colorful way,
saying that he looked as if pomegranate seeds have burst on his face.

ao

11. COUNTER-EVIDENCE 11.2. OTHER ELEMENTS

11.2.2 Lack of Designation

The debate about the validity of the Abrogation Doctrine between the pro-
abrogation camp and the anti-abrogation camp has been largely argumenta-
tive. None of the arguments used by either camp is conclusive, though some
have more merit than others.

One of the most compelling arguments comes from both sides of the debate
simultaneously, and we are going to focus on it here. It is about a concern
that pro-abrogation scholar Al-Zahiri raises, and many on the anti-abrogation
side see it as an argument against the Abrogation Doctrine. It pertains to the
second component of the Abrogation Doctrine, which we restate here:

The Abrogation Doctrine:

1. There are verses in the Quranic script that have been abrogated.
As such, there is no longer a mandate to follow them.

2. In the absence of explicit designation of such verses as abrogated
by God or by the Prophet (PBUH), it is permissible to identify
these verses through reasoning based on other evidence.

Without this second component, there would be no claims of abrogation in
the Quranic script since no verses were explicitly designated as abrogated by
God or His Messenger (PBUH). Identifying abrogated verses has been entirely
the domain of scholarly opinions. As detailed in §11.1.3, this created signifi-
cant uncertainty about which verses are abrogated within the Quranic script.
Al-Zahiri [121] asks a natural question: why wouldn't God "reveal what is
abrogated in a clear-cut way that removes doubts and confusion?" (re) on

Bpoully SSaNl gic 4) aby ble bly Epniall).
Coming from a respected pro-abrogation scholar highlights the importance

of this concern. A number of anti-abrogation scholars put forward arguments
that substantiate this concern:

1. Al-Jabri [54] gives examples of the minutest details that have been pre-
served about what the Prophet (PBUH) said and did, even regarding rel-
atively minor issues, then contrasts that with the total absence of any
statement by him that identifies even a single verse in the Quranic script
as abrogated. Wouldn't that have had a much higher priority?

2. Tahir [202] addresses the 'no uncertainty' promise in verse 2:2, and in-
vokes it as proof against the Abrogation Doctrine since "what uncer-
tainty could be bigger than someone following the rulings of the Quran

11. COUNTER-EVIDENCE 11.2. OTHER ELEMENTS

and remaining afraid and scared that he followed what had been can-
celed, or that he canceled and suspended what had stayed".

3. Al-Ghali [43] wonders "How dare we suspend a ruling and a Divine
command where no text from the Quran or the authentic Prophetic
tradition says that this ruling is abrogated, but rather depending on
an understanding that is uncertain".

This is a clear vulnerability of the Abrogation Doctrine which is seldom
confronted by pro-abrogation scholars. Al-Zahiri [121] was an exception, and
he continued his reflections on this point: "In many things where you claim
abrogation and others disagree with you, and many things where you claim no
abrogation and others claim abrogation." This observation is not just an opin-
ion, but a fact that is uncontested in the abrogation literature. A quick look at
Appendix A.2 shows the extent of this disagreement in hundreds of abrogation
claims.

The lack of explicit designation of which verses are abrogated has caused
another, arguably bigger problem than mere uncertainty. It opened the door
for the practice of looking for conflicts in the Quran. The only reason for this
practice was the need for a 'criterion' to determine which verses are abrogated.

Indeed, there is nothing inherent about abrogation that requires the exis-
tence of a conflict. For example, the requirement in the Torah to fast a partic-
ular day (10th day in the first lunar month) was abrogated when the Torah was
abrogated.? The requirement for Muslims to fast the month of Ramadan (the
9th lunar month) was instituted in the Quran. There is no conflict between
the two fasts, yet one of them was abrogated.

However, without designation, invoking conflict was necessary to justify
claiming that a verse was abrogated. Conflict gave the claim a false legitimacy;
asserting that it is not possible to follow both verses so one must be abrogated.
Inevitably, a competition of sorts ensued in the search for more conflicts under
this pretense. If abrogated verses had been designated, the search for conflict
between verses would have never taken place.

For both issues of uncertainty and conflict, it is not abrogation, in and of
itself, that is the issue. It is abrogation without designation that leaves verses
in the Quranic script inoperative, but not identified as such. This is arguably
the biggest logical concern about the Abrogation Doctrine.

3Muslims are still encouraged, but not required, to fast that day.

11. COUNTER-EVIDENCE 11.3. ANTI-ABROGATION VOICES

11.3. Anti-Abrogation Voices

Dissent about the Abrogation Doctrine is often minimized by pro-abrogation
scholars,+ and sometimes posed as a fringe view that is not to be taken se-
riously. However, the reality shows that this dissent is substantial, both in
terms of quantity and quality. This reality shows that the situation is not
as lopsided as some claim it to be and that the anti-abrogation voices have
become a force to be reckoned with. Indeed, very prominent scholars dissented
and openly rejected the Abrogation Doctrine.

For example, the Mufti of Egypt (chief of religious edicts) is one of the two
highest offices for handling Islamic matters in the country. Not one Mufti,
but two of them rejected the Abrogation Doctrine altogether. Muhammad
Abduh rejected the doctrine in the late 19th century (Rida [193]), and Jumaa
[182] rejected it when he was the Mufti in the early 21st century. The entire
Supreme Council on Islamic Affairs rejected the Abrogation Doctrine in its
Quranic exegesis (SCIA [201]), prompting Zeid [206] to ask them to reconsider.

The early impact of Abduh's dissent may have influenced many subse-
quent Egyptian scholars since he is a highly respected local figure. However,
dissent from the Abrogation Doctrine was not limited to those scholars. There
are anti-abrogation scholars from other geographical regions. Here are some
examples.

Al-Zalmi [123], who was a professor of Islamic jurisprudence in northern
Iraq, wrote a detailed book that refutes the Abrogation Doctrine. He reached
his conclusion after reviewing "hundreds of reliable references in Quranic ex-
egesis, Prophetic narrations and their explanation, books about the Founda-
tions of Deduction, and old and new books about abrogation in the Quran."
Al-Qasimi [77], a highly respected scholar from Syria, did not even mention
the Abrogation Doctrine as he interpreted verse 2:106 in his Quranic exegesis.
Anti-abrogation scholar Asad [130], who wrote a highly respected translation
of the Quran with commentary, lived in Spain.

The modern era has seen a huge increase in the number of anti-abrogation
authors. In addition to those already mentioned, some notable names are Al-
Jabri [54] who dedicated much of his life to this subject and Afana [7] who
wrote a detailed book refuting the Abrogation Doctrine. Al-Ghali [43] wrote
one of the most polished anti-abrogation books. Tahir [202], Nada [190], Al-
Saqga [88], Ataya [132], Al-Banna [29], Al-Ulwani [17], Imara [180], and others
also wrote dedicated anti-abrogation books.

Other reputable scholars who did not focus on the subject of the Abro-
gation Doctrine also rejected the doctrine in their writing. Among them is

4We reiterate that in this book, the terms 'pro-abrogation' and 'anti-abrogation' pertain
to abrogation of verses within the Quranic script only, regardless of the views about other
types of abrogation.

11. COUNTER-EVIDENCE 11.3. ANTI-ABROGATION VOICES

M. Al-Ghazali [46] who states his rejection without mincing words, saying
that the premise of the doctrine is what he "negates thoroughly" ce (a 483).
Abu-Zahra [6] uses less combative language in his rejection. He addresses the
abrogation claims, saying "a deep look shows the possibility of reconciliation,
and if reconciliation is possible in any facet, it has priority over abrogation".

Some exegetes have also shown their anti-abrogation stance, as SCIA [201]
did. In his exegesis of the Quran, Al-Khatib interprets both verses 2:106 (Al-
Khatib [61]) and 16:101 (Al-Khatib [61]) in a decidedly anti-abrogation way.
Al-Bahiyy [26] does the same in his interpretation of verse 16:101.

The sheer number and diversity of these anti-abrogation scholars have
made it easier for others who do not accept the doctrine to come forward with
their views. Rejecting the doctrine is still not mainstream, and anti-abrogation
scholars still face the wrath of those who disagree with them. However, the
scholarly atmosphere has decidedly changed, allowing the different views to
be aired more freely. If the Mufti of Egypt can reject the Abrogation Doctrine
publicly, so can other scholars who share his opinion.

There is sometimes apprehension about the Abrogation Doctrine even
among those who approved it, including major scholars. One example is Al-
Zahiri [121] who accepted the Abrogation Doctrine as the tradition prescribed
but went into a lengthy soul searching about it. He asked many questions like
what gave the abrogated in ruling the priority to remain in the Quranic script

over what was abrogated in recitation? (Epa or 4a cal Le cla) Jam CL
Se peel op 4a) a) Loe la YL sl). He does not offer answers to any of the
questions he asks as he falls back on his faith in God's will.

Al-Razi [83] also has a moment of apprehension about the Abrogation
Doctrine. He interprets verse 18:27 "And recite what has been revealed to you

of the Book of your Lord. No one substitutes His words ..." es la ils
[SV : LagSIl] € ... sss Jag 3b CUS Se DEI] as a mandate to comply
by what is recited in the Quran. This leads him to ponder "so abrogation
must not happen in [the Quran]" (43! cel Ges yi —>=3), then to concede Al-
Asfahani's anti-abrogation view. He goes on to explain this away by arguing
that substitution is not abrogation, notwithstanding that he had interpreted
substitution to specifically mean abrogation in verse 16:101 (Al-Razi [83}).

Even Al-Nahhas [71] who wrote one of the earliest pro-abrogation books
was equivocal about the notion that abrogated verses are in fact annulled. In
spite of approving the abrogation claim of verse 2:184 about a fasting exemp-
tion, he accepted that the abrogated exemption was still valid "even if it is
abrogated, because it is still in the [Quranic] script" (46 ig dd pes CIT Oly
tos)\ 3).

5The claim was discussed in §4.3.

11. COUNTER-EVIDENCE 11.4. THE OTHER ABROGATION VERSE (22:52)

Looking back at history, AlAsfahani remains the most influential scholar
in rejecting the Abrogation Doctrine. Even if his arguments were not always
strong, and even with the barrage of personal attacks and ridicule that he
received over the centuries, scholars still could not ignore his views and he
is featured in almost every book about abrogation in Islamic history. His
contribution more than a millennium ago paved the way for what is now
a steady stream of anti-abrogation scholars in the modern era.

11.4 The Other Abrogation Verse (22:52)

This verse has two features that impact the discussion of the Abrogation Doc-
trine. First, it is the only other verse in the Quran that includes the word naskh
in the same conjugation used in the abrogation verse 2:106, so it provides in-
sight into the semantic use of the word. Second, there is an interpretation of
this verse that lends support to the view that 2:106 addresses the abrogation
of verses in previous scripture, so it provides evidence against the Abrogation
Doctrine.

A third feature, which is incidental to the abrogation discussion, is that
the way this verse was interpreted for centuries involved a made-up story that
was later proven false. This feature will be discussed in §12.3.1 as we address
the question of how the Abrogation Doctrine could possibly be false when it
has survived for so long.

Here is what the verse says, with a selected translation of a key word:

oe SNS. Y &3 15 dos ye DUS Be Cast ss
SUT bl Send S SUE a Ue al AS echt
[ot : ql]

[22:52] And never did We send before you a messenger or prophet
except that when he recited, Satan cast into his recitation. But God
promptly abrogates what Satan casts; then God firms His verses. And
God is much Knowing, very Wise.

The Arabic word a which was translated above to 'recited' is normally
used to mean 'wished' instead. We will elaborate on this point shortly, but
let us first discuss the two features of the verse that matter the most to the
Abrogation Doctrine.

The verse describes what God did toward what Satan cast, using the same
verb form of naskh that was used in the abrogation verse 2:106. Therefore, it
sheds light on what the verb signifies in Quranic use. Let us look at what the
exegetes say about it when they interpret verse 22:52.

11. COUNTER-EVIDENCE 11.4. THE OTHER ABROGATION VERSE (22:52)

1. Al-Zamakhshari [124] and Al-Nasafi [72] use 'take it away' (4 is) to
interpret the act of naskh.

2. Al-Thaalabi [110], Al-Thaalibi [111], Al-Baghawi [23], and Al-Khazen
[62] use 'make it gone' (aa).

3. Al-Razi [83] also uses 'make it gone' then describes that as "the linguistic
meaning" of naskh, contrasting it with the 'juristic' meaning that applies
to rulings, in an apparent attempt to reconcile the different ways he
interpreted the same word in two verses.

4. Several exegetes use a verb form that translates to "something being
gone" (Al-Qazwini [79]) as we detailed in §11.1.2.

5. Ibn Kathir [163] uses the word 'removal' (4\j¥1), describing it as the true
nature of naskh linguistically.

These definitive interpretations of the word naskh in verse 22:52, and the
assertions that this is the proper linguistic interpretation, contrast how the
same word was interpreted in the abrogation verse 2:106 in a metaphoric sense.
That metaphoric interpretation was used to justify the notion that a verse
would remain intact in the Quranic script after being abrogated, which is the
main premise of the Abrogation Doctrine.

As we discussed in detail in §9.3.3, the claim by a number of exegetes
that the metaphoric interpretation of naskh in verse 2:106 is a necessity is not
a valid claim. It was refuted using direct evidence from scholars such as A.
Al-Ghazali [44] and Ibn Taymia [172].

The interpretation of the word naskh is the first feature of verse 22:52 that
goes against the Abrogation Doctrine. The second feature pertains to an in-
terpretation of the verse as a whole that takes into consideration its context,
namely the preceding verse and the following two verses. The interpretation
assumes that the word = in verse 22:52 means 'recite' rather than 'wish', as
we alluded to before. We will discuss the interpretation first, then go back to
the question of 'recite' versus 'wish' at the end.

Almost all exegetes interpret verse 22:52 as consolation to the Prophet
(PBUH) for the difficulty he was facing, by recounting the difficulties that previ-
ous prophets have faced. However, early exegetes used the wrong context for
such consolation, citing a made-up story that has now been fully debunked.®
The correct context of verse 22:52 can readily be seen in the preceding verse
22:51,

DOV: hE gaol Sst Hei yh Soyele UTS as Gulls

®This story will be addressed in §12.3.1.

11. COUNTER-EVIDENCE 11.4. THE OTHER ABROGATION VERSE (22:52)

[22:51] And the ones who strove against Our verses to undermine
them - those are the companions of Hellfire.

The difficulty that the Prophet (PBUH) was facing was that the enemies of Islam
strove to undermine the verses of the Quran. The consolation in verse 22:52
is that every previous prophet has faced similar difficulties, but the message
of God prevailed over Satan's effort. The two verses are linked through the
preposition 'And' which is the first word in verse 22:52. This reinforces the
connection between them.

Let us now look beyond the consolatory nature of verse 22:52 and examine
its exact wording. There are two words in the verse that we focus on:

[ots At WY E5 V5 Soh Ge GUS Ge LEH 6
[22:52] And never did We send before you|a messenger or prophet
except ...

Why is the verse specifically referring to the prophets before Muhammad (PBUH)
if its statement applies equally to him? Had the statement about what Satan
does and how God corrects it applied to the Prophet (PBUH), a simple "And
never did We send a messenger or prophet except that ..." would have conveyed
the meaning more comprehensively without 'before you', and would have still
served the same consolation role.

A closer look confirms that the specifics of the difficulty that previous
prophets faced are not exactly the same as what the Prophet (PBUH) was facing.
The situations are similar, but not identical. The enemies of Divine scripture
always work hard to undermine it,

[4 8S] € .. alge 25 ye SUI 854 ..
[5:41] ... They alter the words after [the words] have been set ...

The main difference is that for the Prophet (PBUH), their effort was destined to
fail from the start and the Quran was preserved word for word. With previous
scripture, Satan had temporary success by having those enemies inject into the
scripture what does not belong to it. This is how previous scripture became
altered, while the Quran has not been altered at all.

What happens when Satan succeeds? God abrogates the altered scripture,
"'.. then God firms His verses ..." [22:52] [es Tcl if oe as] abl as os es by
revealing a new, unaltered scripture. How do we know that this is what firming
means? Why wouldn't it mean restoring the old scripture to its unaltered
origin? The reason is that if the old scriptures had been restored, we wouldn't
have been left with the altered Gospel and Torah we have today. Permanent

11. COUNTER-EVIDENCE 11.4. THE OTHER ABROGATION VERSE (22:52)

alteration, followed by abrogation and revealing a new scripture, has indeed
occurred to every previous scripture (Al-Hindi [51]), but not to the Quran.

This interpretation is the second feature of verse 22:52 that goes against
the Abrogation Doctrine by showing that the object of abrogation has been
previous, altered scripture. This is exactly what the anti-abrogation interpre-
tation of verses 2:106 and 16:101 asserts (see Chapter 9).

The two verses after 22:52 are also consistent with this interpretation. They
explain the reason why Satan was allowed to alter previous scripture in the
first place. For the disbelievers,

mail elds 553 pee sld 3 Gall Seis Suh ak G Jase
[ov : abl] ...

[22:53] [That is] so that He may make what Satan casts a trial for
those in whose hearts is a disease and those hard of heart...

while for the believers,

|

BSS oy LS O85 Ge GAIT had 131 el Pate

[ot abil ...

[22:54] And so those who were given knowledge may a that
it is the truth from your Lord and [therefore] believe in it, and their
hearts humbly submit to it...

This last verse makes a specific point. It states that the process of altered
scripture followed by unaltered, new scripture helps the knowledgeable "know
that it is the truth from your Lord". How is that? Why would a succession from
altered scriptures to new scriptures confirm that it is the truth from God more
than a single, unaltered scripture would?

The reason is that even if previous versions of the scripture were altered,
they still contain so much commonality about the core message from God that
it is difficult to believe that so many prophets over time came up with the same
message without the source of this message being the same, God Almighty.
A single scripture, even unaltered, would be more susceptible to doubts that
it was made up.

Finally, we address the question of 'recite' versus 'wish' as an interpretation
of the Arabic word as in verse 22:52. Perhaps the link between the two
meanings is that we express a wish verbally even if it is unrealized. However,
the interpretation has been a controversial issue among exegetes, affecting how
the verse as a whole is understood.

11. COUNTER-EVIDENCE 11.4. THE OTHER ABROGATION VERSE (22:52)

Although the interpretation of the Arabic word es to signify 'recite' in-
stead of 'wish' is unusual, it is the majority opinion and there are verses in
the Quran that are consistent with this interpretation:

1. A conjugation of the word a is used in the possible sense of recitation
in the verse "And among them are illiterates who do not know the scripture

= = . . " oreo
except as |recitations|, and they are but conjecturing." [2:78] aeey }

IVA ss,1N1{ Sik Vi eb dbp Glel V] oh 5 they Va ,2

2. The word for 'cast' (what Satan did in verse 22:52) is used in the Quran
where the object of casting is specifically the spoken word,
".. But they cast] at them the statement 'Indeed, you are liars'." [16:86]

[A1: geil 4 66385 =) J5ai 7 ¢ jj Peale ves .

Nonetheless, some exegetes disagree. Ibn Ashur [153], who sae
linguistic issues, greatly doubts that 'recite' is the intended meaning of (25
in verse 22:52. AL Shaarawi [92] also finds that meaning quite remote in this
particular instance because the verse refers to what messengers and prophets
do. Prophets who are not messengers do not bring a new scripture, so it is
less clear what they would be reciting that would be interfered with by Satan.

an
This chapter presented additional, compelling anti-abrogation evidence.
The evidence goes against what the Abrogation Doctrine implies in terms of

conflict, annulment, and uncertainty within the Quranic script. This evidence
reinforces the refutation of the Abrogation Doctrine that was done in Part II.

Chapter 12

How Did This Happen?

The refutation of the Abrogation Doctrine was done through refuting indi-
vidual abrogation claims in Part II of this book. Part III has been focusing
on alleviating concerns about other evidence, outside of individual abrogation
claims, that relates to the doctrine. In the same spirit, we close with this
chapter that alleviates another legitimate concern: How could a doctrine that
is readily refutable persist in Islamic thought for more than a millennium?

We will provide concrete reasons for how this could, and did, happen. The
reasons belong to two different categories. In §12.1, we will address how the
Abrogation Doctrine started in the first place. In §12.2, we will address how
it took hold from then on.

The final concern, which we address in §12.3, is what the impact would be
if this refutation of the Abrogation Doctrine gained acceptance. It would not
be the first instance in Islamic history where an issue that was widely accepted
ended up being widely rejected. We will discuss two previous instances. The
impact of the reversal in those instances was all positive. There was virtue in
reverting to the truth (4.28 go! (J! ¢5>,!), and there were tangible benefits.
Mistakes are inevitable in human endeavors. If mistakes can be corrected, it
is never too late to do so.

12.1 How Did It Start?

Before we go into the subject matter of this section, let us clarify a key point
about this chapter as a whole, namely what the chapter is not about. It is not
about arguing for or against the Abrogation Doctrine. That was already done
in previous chapters. It is also not about arguing that everyone was unjus-
tified in accepting the Abrogation Doctrine. There were good arguments to

12. How Dip Tuis HAPPEN? 12.1. How Dip It Starr?

persuade at least some scholars that the doctrine is valid and, naturally, schol-
ars can reach different opinions about a complex issue like this. Disagreement
is a normal and healthy part of scholarship.

What this chapter is about are the tangible reasons why, in the specific case
of the Abrogation Doctrine, a vast majority of scholars supported a doctrine
whose merits did not warrant that level of support. Some, perhaps many,
would support it anyway, but certainly not the overwhelming number that
casts the level of agreement, in and of itself, as evidence that the doctrine
must be valid.

First, we address how the seeds of the Abrogation Doctrine were laid in
the earlier part of Islamic history. This can be attributed to two undisputed
historical facts. We will discuss each of them in detail.

12.1.1 The word 'naskh'

The single most important factor that gave the Abrogation Doctrine its initial
boost was the semantic ambiguity of the word naskh as used by early Muslims.
Indeed, naskh was commonly used for meanings other than abrogation, such
as elaboration and exception. These were legitimate uses of the word given
the common understanding of what naskh covered at the time. The problem
is that many statements that used the word naskh were later quoted as if
they were evidence of abrogation, notwithstanding the other meanings that
the word signified.

This is not a unique situation in Islamic history. Al-Zahiri [121] makes
a general statement about the consequences of semantic ambiguity, calling the
use of one word for many meanings "the origin of every calamity, blindness,
mix-up, and corruption" as one person uses a word for a certain meaning and
another person understands it in a different meaning (class ob IS 3 beN

i eine peel peu ag elon we dol, ol 399 claw Y) byes] colds deli

EMS ead prea) oll iN eal EUS pe le eel alened aod Goll ile! tol uy yay
JIS2Yy). _

The impact that the ambiguity of naskh had on establishing the Abrogation
Doctrine is not to be underestimated. For those who understood naskh to mean
abrogation only, the sheer volume of quotes by early Muslims that included
that word may have given the impression that the Abrogation Doctrine is
an inevitable part of religion.

The impact of semantic ambiguity in other situations is well documented.
Salih [195] wrote a dedicated research paper on the subject, and he refers to
dozens of instances of semantic ambiguity and its impact in the history of
Islamic jurisprudence. He quoted major scholars addressing the issue, which

12. How Dip Tuis HAPPEN? 12.1. How Dip It Start?

sheds light on the scope of the problem.

The fact that there was semantic ambiguity in how early Muslims used the
word naskh is not in dispute. Some major scholars spelled it out. Ibn Taymia
[172] asserted that "the decisive statement is that the word naskh is cursory,
as the predecessors used it in what is thought the verse implies, whether it is
generality, absoluteness, or something else (2U3 si Jb) ri apat)." In another
spot (Ibn Taymia {172]), he mentions "specializing the general and restricting

the absolute" (sletsi nity ell 2.255) as examples of meanings of naskh as
used by the predecessors.

Waliyullah [203] also listed different ways in which the word naskh had
been employed in early narrations. His list includes specializing a general
ruling, pointing to a meaning that was not apparent, or correcting a misun-
derstanding.

The fact that such semantic ambiguity was a culprit in claiming abrogation
is also not in dispute. For example, numerous narrations by Ibn Abbas (RA)
use the word naskh in situations that patently are not about abrogation. Yet,
they are quoted as if they are evidence for abrogation. Zeid [206] addresses
this issue and laments:

"..it is not of scholarly fidelity at all to quote a narration by Ibn Ab-
bas (RA) —or anyone else— in which he states that a verse did naskh
to another although there is no relation between the two verses
other than one being an exception from the other, then use that
to deduce the naskh of one verse by the other in the sense that has
later become the conventional definition of abrogation."

What made such confusion possible? One reason is that early Muslims
did not document how they defined the word naskh. Zeid [206] notes that
"some of the authors who wrote about the origins and the abrogated and
abrogating, and some of them are of stature, did not bother with defining
abrogation." Brevity was customary in that era. Al-Khodari [65] laments
the 'compromising brevity' that persisted for centuries in early Islam. Under
these circumstances, it is not difficult to see how scholars may misinterpret
what early Muslims meant when they used a particular term such as naskh.

The meanings of naskh other than abrogation, such as exception and elab-
oration, describe common occurrences in the Quran. Therefore, it is not sur-
prising that the word was used frequently by early Muslims in quotes that were
not related to abrogation. Confronted by a significant number of such quotes,
and treating the word naskh as if it meant abrogation in all of them, a scholar
who is weighing the evidence for and against the Abrogation Doctrine will
certainly be inclined to adopt the doctrine as valid.

Let us elaborate on this point. Reaching an opinion is not a black-and-

12. How Dip Tuis HAPPEN? 12.1. How Dip It Start?

white process for scholars. On almost every issue, there is evidence for and
against. Weighing the two conflicting bodies of evidence is how scholars arrive
at their opinions.

In the case of abrogation, if the evidence was heavily tilted toward the Ab-
rogation Doctrine because of numerous quotes that were considered supportive
but were in fact irrelevant because their use of naskh was not in the sense of
abrogation, it is completely logical that a vast majority of scholars would take
the side of the Abrogation Doctrine. We are not discussing what the merits
of the doctrine are, or are not. We are only showing how it is possible for
many scholars in the early days of Islam to have supported it when they were
looking at tilted evidence.

The era where naskh was used for meanings other than abrogation was not
restricted to the time of the fellows of the Prophet (PBUH), but it continued
to the time when major schools of thought were starting to form by later
scholars. The school of thought of Abu-Hanifa, which is the earliest and
arguably the most influential in Islamic history, used the word naskh in the
sense of exception (Zeid {206]). Abu-Hanifa's use of the expression 'partial
naskh' to describe adjustment to a ruling is very telling of the fundamentally
different way he treated that word. Abrogation, being annulment, is total not
partial.

The definition of naskh as only abrogation did not come until later (Zeid
[206]). In the late second hijri century, it was Al-Shafei who was the earliest
major scholar to restrict naskh to mean abrogation only (Shula [199}).

The reliance of scholars on quotes from early Muslims to form their opinions
about a given issue is a fundamental tool in Islamic jurisprudence. This is why
the semantic ambiguity of the word naskh in these quotes had such a huge
impact. We now move to a second factor, also related to early quotes, that
had its own significant impact on starting the Abrogation Doctrine.

12.1.2 Inauthentic Narrations

The first systematic authentication of narrations that are attributed to the
Prophet (PBUH) and his Fellows (Ra) took place in the third hijri century by Al-
Bukhari. This happened after the Abrogation Doctrine had been formulated
and, in fact, after the key schools of thought in Islam, including those of
Abu-Hanifa, Malik, Al-Shafei, and Ibn Hanbal, had been established.

This means that all scholars who preceded Al-Bukhari did not have the
benefit of his research that identified which narrations among those circulating
at the time were verified by him as authentic. Those scholars depended on
the information available to them at the time. In hindsight, some of that
information was not reliable.

12. How Dip Tuis HAPPEN? 12.1. How Dip It Start?

For example, though highly regarded, neither Malik's book of narrations

Al-Muattaa (isl) nor Ibn Hanbal's book of narrations Al-Musnad (42245!)
ended up among the authoritative books of narrations after the authentication
era. At the time they were published, their content was viewed as authorita-
tive. For instance, Al-Shafei described Malik's Al-Muattaa as second only to
the Quran itself (Malik [185}).

Why is this relevant to our discussion here? There are important narra-
tions about abrogation that were widely circulating in the early days of Islam
that proved inauthentic later on. To understand the impact of such narra-
tions on the establishment of the Abrogation Doctrine, we are going to focus
on an inauthentic narration that was attributed to Ali (RA) which had an inor-
dinate impact in making the Abrogation Doctrine look like an inevitable part
of the religion.

How could just one narration make all that difference? The Abrogation
Doctrine asserts that there are abrogated verses in the Quranic script. If
scholars were certain that one specific verse was indeed abrogated, the entire
Abrogation Doctrine would become inevitable (Zeid [206]). At that point,
the question was no longer whether the Abrogation Doctrine was valid, but
whether other verses were also abrogated. One proven abrogation claim is
sufficient to prove that the doctrine is valid and opens the door to looking for
more.

The narration in question is used to substantiate the "private consulta-
tion" abrogation claim which was refuted in §5.1. This is the most famous
abrogation claim in the literature and is often used by pro-abrogation scholars
as tangible proof that the Abrogation Doctrine is valid. Different versions of
the narration in question were widely cited despite being inauthentic.

The narration quotes Ali (RA) asserting that he was the only person to
abide by the mandate in verse 58:12 to offer charity before engaging in private
consultation with the Prophet (PBUH). The narration goes on to say "no one
after me will put [charity before consultation] into action" as the mandate in
the verse was abrogated by the next verse 58:13. There are variations of this
narration that go into different details.

The wording of this narration is quite pointed. The statement "no one
after me will put into action" indicates actual abrogation. The usual issue of
using the word naskh and having ambiguity associated with it is not there. In
addition, coming from a revered personality like Ali (Ra), this clearly would be
decisive evidence for the abrogation claim, and it may explain why the claim
has been so widely accepted.

The problem is that this narration is not authentic, as we elaborated in
detail in §5.1. The narration was not found to be authentic in any of the
major books of narrations by Al-Bukhari [35], Muslim [189], Abu-Dawoud [3],
Al-Tirmizi [113], Al-Nasai [73], and Ibn Majah [166], nor in the additional

l7

12. How Dip Tuis HAPPEN? 12.1. How Dip It Starr?

recognized books of narrations by Ibn Hibban [161] and Ibn Khuzayma [165].

Even the expansive book Al-Musnad by Ibn Hanbal [160], which compiled
more than 27,000 narrations including narrations by Ali (RA), did not include
any version of the above narration about verse 58:12. The authentication
criteria of Ibn Hanbal were not strict enough for scholars to accept his book
as an authoritative book of narrations. Yet, the narration by Ali (RA) still did
not make it to that book, notwithstanding that the book was written more
than a century after the era where the cited narration purportedly belonged.

Nonetheless, this inauthentic narration, in one form or another, was cited
as evidence, sometimes as the only evidence, when scholars concluded that the
abrogation claim of verse 58:12 was valid. In §5.1.1, we reported compelling
statistics about how ubiquitously this narration was cited in this context. Here
is a summary.

We surveyed the books of exegesis of the Quran that interpret verse 58:12.
Twenty-five out of thirty books prominently featured the narration of Ali (RA)
in their interpretation that 58:12 was abrogated. The remaining five books
mentioned it less prominently. Surveying the books that are dedicated to ab-
rogation or have a detailed section about it, we looked at twenty books that
approved the abrogation claim of verse 58:12. Among them, fifteen promi-
nently featured that narration in their analysis of the abrogation claim. One
book mentioned it less prominently, and the remaining four books did not
mention it or mention any other evidence.

This leaves no doubt about how an inauthentic narration can have a far-
reaching impact. As mentioned before, when a scholar reaches an opinion, it
is not a black-and-white process. He weighs the evidence for and against that
opinion. Any scholar in the early part of Islam who did not know that this
narration was not authentic when he considered the abrogation claim of verse
58:12 was faced with a compelling piece of evidence that seemed to support
the claim unequivocally.

Because of this, it is completely logical that these scholars reached the
opinion that the claim is valid. Once a scholar reaches that conclusion, it
is not only logical, but inevitable, that he will concede that the Abrogation
Doctrine as a whole is valid. Indeed, modern scholar Al-Shinqeiti {99] invokes
this claim as a standalone proof of the Abrogation Doctrine.

This is just one example, though it is a decisive example given the promi-
nence of its abrogation claim. There is an abundance of other examples of
inauthentic narrations being cited to support abrogation claims. A case in
point is the book by Ibn Salama [170] that is often cited in the abrogation
literature. At the end of the book, after enumerating the abrogation claims
that he approves, Ibn Salama lists the sources from which he extracted his
information. Many of these sources have been discredited.

12. How Dip Tuis HAPPEN? 12.1. How Dip It Start?

Let us look at two sources that he prominently mentions at the top of
his list, Muqatil and Al-Kalbi. They were contemporaneous early Muslims
who lived in the first to second hijri centuries and were the source of many
abrogation narrations. However, in terms of reliability as narrators, they have
been thoroughly discredited by major narration scholars.

For example, Muqatil's narrations are 'to be left out' (Cyto) 4y 2°) by con-
sensus of scholars, according to S. Al-Zahabi [119], with strong condemnation
quoted in the book. In one of the quotes, Al-Bukhari [38] describes Mugqatil

s "nothing at all" (43) ¢_.#Y). Prominent abrogation scholar Zeid {206] spent
several pages citing evidence that unequivocally impeaches Muqatil.

The other source, Al-Kalbi, did not fare much better. Zeid [206] lists those
who dismissed his narrations for a variety of reasons, including outright lying
and senility. Ibn Hibban [162] elaborates the accounts of Al-Kalbi's lying, and
concludes with a quote that "the clarity of [his] lying is more apparent than
needs to be elaborated" (sissy e SEY J) clew ol oy el ad CASI crey)-

To put this in perspective, Ibn Salama died in the early fifth hijri century,
well after the authentication work of Al-Bukhari and others was completed.
Given that, if he depends on Mugqatil and Al-Kalbi in matters of abrogation,
one can only imagine how earlier Muslims, without the benefit of knowledge
that Ibn Salama had available, can be affected by such questionable sources.
Their views of abrogation were based, at least in part, on narrations that
proved later to be inauthentic. It is incumbent upon us to look at these views
in the context where they arose.

Key Point

Major scholars, including all four Imams of the Islamic schools of
thought, instructed us to examine how they reached their opin-
ions (Ibn Al-Qayyim [150]). In the words of Imam Abu-Hanifa, "no
one is allowed to assert what we said until, he knows from where we
said it" (os of or he ce We Sp ol nes bs Y). This is exactly

what we are doing here, following their instructions.

Looking at the origins of the Abrogation Doctrine, the circumstances at the
time explain why the doctrine was so widely accepted even if the real evidence
did not warrant that level of acceptance.

This begs the question: why wasn't the Abrogation Doctrine challenged
later once scholars realized the role that questionable evidence played in form-
ing the doctrine in the first place? This is what we address in the next section.

12. How Dip Tuis HAPPEN? 12.2. How Dip It TAKE HOLpD?

12.2 How Did It Take Hold?

Once the Abrogation Doctrine was established, it gathered more attention and
elaboration from prominent scholars. By the fourth hijri century, it had taken
hold as an integral part of the religion as can be seen in the major books of
that era such as Al-Tabari [107], Al-Jassas [57], and Al-Nahhas [71]. From
then on, it passed from generation to generation without notable dissent until
the last century. In this section, we address some factors that contributed to
the persistence of the Abrogation Doctrine in Islamic heritage.

12.2.1 Imitation

Imitation (.éJ|) is a widespread phenomenon in Islamic jurisprudence. It
means following previous opinions without critical analysis of what had led to
those opinions. It is similar to precedence in the legal world, where a ruling is
justified based merely on the fact that it has been invoked in a previous court.

There is a positive side to imitation, similar to precedence, in that it helps
the body of rulings remain stable and consistent over time. Without some
level of imitation, rulings may keep changing back and forth, thus eroding
confidence in the entire body of rulings.

From a religious point of view, imitation has its place. For example, fol-
lowing the practices of the Prophet (PBUH) is not debatable. What he said and
did are not opinions; they are the religion itself. Imitation of learned people
can also make sense for those who lack the knowledge or analytic capacity to
create a reliable opinion on their own.

What is debatable is the imitation of scholars, even if they are revered
scholars, by those who are capable of critical analysis. The usual argument
for defending imitation in this case is that it may be better to defer to someone
who is more learned than to create an independent, but erroneous opinion. [bn
Al-Qayyim [150] argues this point on behalf of imitators, emphasizing the risk
of creating the wrong opinion compared to the risk of following an opinion
that turns out to be wrong.

point to ponder

What if a learned scholar that we are imitating out of deference
had used information that seemed correct at the time and later
proved to be incorrect? For example, what if he used a narration
that turned out to be inauthentic or interpreted naskh to mean
something when it meant something else?

The negative side of imitation is clear. It allows an incorrect opinion to

12. How Dip Tuis HAPPEN? 12.2. How Dip It TAKE HOLpD?

propagate and persist without the chance to revisit its reasoning. The opinion
of Al-Zahiri [121] is that a thinker who is wrong is better than an imitator
who is right. Major scholars have stated unequivocally that they should not
be imitated themselves. In addition to what we quoted before, Ibn Al-Qayyim
[150] reported that the four Imams of Islamic schools of thought, Abu-Hanifa,
Malik, Al-Shafei, and Ibn Hanbal, "admonished against imitating them, and
disparaged those who take their opinion without proof." It was not just a mat-
ter of humility on the part of those Imams. It was what you would expect
from true scholars and pious Muslims who know they are not infallible.

For the purpose of the present discussion, we are not in fact concerned
at all with whether imitation is right or wrong. We are only concerned with
the undisputed fact that imitation has happened abundantly in Islamic ju-
risprudence. As A. Al-Ghazali [45] describes it when he debates the subject,
imitation is the "[chosen] methodology for the most [people]" (-.:5>U Cds).

Why is this our only concern here? If you know that a hundred independent
scholars arrived at the same opinion about some issue, it is very difficult to
argue that they are all wrong. However, if these hundred scholars are not
independent, and in fact are imitating one another, the opinion no longer has
the power that independent thought would confer.

This is what is lost by imitation, regardless of whether you think the prac-
tice itself is good or bad. When imitation happens, independence is lost. This
is what matters for the question this chapter is asking, which is how could the
Abrogation Doctrine have such a wide agreement, not whether the doctrine is
valid per se.

It is the lack of independence that can create overwhelming agreement
without the merits that would warrant such agreement. This is a recurring
situation inside and outside of religion. Social sciences have studied these
phenomena, which are technically called 'cascades' (Sunstein {200]). This is
a key notion in understanding how the Abrogation Doctrine took hold. Let
us elaborate what a cascade is and how it unfolds, in four points.

1) The nature of a cascade. A cascade starts when a decision that was
made by predecessors gets subsequently adopted without being critically reex-
amined. The more people adopt the decision, the more likely that others will
consequently adopt it as well, and that cascade takes off. Numerous examples
from history and from controlled experiments show that these cascades are
very powerful and resistant to change.

It is clear that in the case of the Abrogation Doctrine, previous decisions
were not critically examined by many, since they cited the same evidence
used to make the original decisions even as that evidence was subsequently
invalidated. The narration attributed to Ali (RA) that was mentioned in §12.1.2
was still being cited as evidence to support the abrogation claim of verse

12. How Dip Tuis HAPPEN? 12.2. How Dip It TAKE HOLpD?

58:12 for centuries after the authoritative narration books excluded it. The
narrations attributed to Ibn Abbas (RA) that use the word naskh in the sense
of exception are still being cited in the literature as evidence for abrogation.
The cascade is in plain sight.

Cascades were recognized by Islamic scholars, even if they did not call it
by that name. The essence of cascades is the propagation of fallacy through
imitation. Therefore, we would not know if a widespread belief resulting from
a cascade is true. As A. Al-Ghazali [45] phrases it, "imitation is accept-
ing a view without proof, and this is not a path to knowledge, neither in

fundamentals nor in branches." (¢ 5,4) 3 Ys Jaan ey call J lab SUS, yaa)
It is important that he included 'fundamentals' here since the Abrogation Doc-
trine, by virtue of how much it penetrated Islamic thought, has attained the
level of a fundamental.

Cascades are a human phenomenon that can happen in many settings
as shown in social sciences, but there are factors that are particular to reli-
gion that exacerbate this phenomenon. Let us highlight a factor that played
a significant role in the cascade of the Abrogation Doctrine, and that is the
repercussions of dissent.

2) Reluctance to dissent. One of the reasons cascades happen naturally is
the tendency of humans not to dissent from popular views, even in a culture
of agreeable disagreement where the repercussions of dissent are minor. In
religious matters, the repercussions of dissent can be severe, making cascades
even more inevitable.

One of the most potent examples of these repercussions is how Al-Asfahani,
who was the most prominent dissenter from the Abrogation Doctrine in the
early days of Islam, was treated by other scholars. It is one thing to disagree
with his views. It is another thing to slander him with insults and accusations.
His legacy endured personal attacks and ridicule that would make any other
scholar who questioned the Abrogation Doctrine think twice before making
his views known.

A modern example of these repercussions is well documented. After wit-
nessing the revolt against an established scholar as he expressed a dissenting
view on a different religious matter, Al-Qaradawi [76] lamented: "how many
opinions and new, daring views remain imprisoned in the chests of those who
have them, until they die with them without anyone hearing about it or any-
one conveying it to others" (yt (<b dem (ho Aya y Be Claims ely) or —
ree d>| lin os cdol ly leone ws bgt Spe clglesl).

Why such extreme aversion to dissent? It is arguable that dissent in Islamic
scholarship is not tolerated as a matter of cultural norms, where difference of
opinion (34+) is often equated with discord (4+). An early book captures
this point. Al-Tahawi [109] admonishes deviating from scholarly leaders and

12. How Dip Tuis HAPPEN? 12.2. How Dip It TAKE HOLD?

political leaders "even if they transgress" (\j)- 3J3). This would take imitation
to a new level. Not only do you accept an opinion without proof, but you
accept it even if you know it is objectionable in order to avoid disagreement.

As a result, a dissenting view by a scholar can result in loss of stature,
loss of livelihood, or worse. Even scholars in the modern era felt the pressure.
Al-Ghali [43] talks about his reluctance to share his anti-abrogation views
since they disagreed with so many scholars. Even a pro-abrogation scholar
like Zeid [206] says that he took on the subject of abrogation while he knows
that he would be "between two fears" of not saying something new and of
saying something new that would be perceived as disagreeing with tradition.

3) When a cascade takes hold. If a cascade is already in place, the hostile
attitude toward dissent is not necessarily all bad. There is a good reason for
scholars to put dissent in check. When it comes to religion, unity is critical.
Dissent often leads to divisions that can even create opposing sects within the
religion, with devastating consequences. Also, dissent is not always the correct
opinion; it can be argued that dissent is often on the wrong side. Therefore,
resistance to dissent within religion is not illogical.

Muslim scholars are particularly wary of divisions within the religion. The
notions of bidaa (novelty - 4¢4,) and fitna (schism - 423) are central to their
thought. These notions capture two connected phenomena, where bidaa is
the introduction of something into the religion that was not part of it before,
and fitna is large-scale division and disagreement. The former is often a cause
for the latter, as some people adopt the novelty and others don't, and they
polarize along these lines.

This wariness is exacerbated when the dissent is about something as es-
tablished as the Abrogation Doctrine. Al-Khazraji [63] expresses the dread of
such dissent: "Denying abrogation hits all the narrations, texts, and reports
that reached us from the predecessors, generation after generation, and raises
doubts about the scholarship of this nation and its legacy."

This is the mindset that nourished the cascade of the Abrogation Doc-
trine. Al-Arid [20] is a case in point. His reaction when he first looked into
abrogation was "I was stunned by what I saw" (ax, Le gly), and he rejected
it altogether. It was when his academic advisor directed him to traditional
books and references that he changed his views and accepted the Abrogation
Doctrine.

Some pro-abrogation scholars try to find a balance between what they
see as excess (41,5!) in the number of abrogation claims and what they see as
negligence (2,,47) in rejecting the Abrogation Doctrine altogether. They accept
the Abrogation Doctrine but approve fewer abrogation claims. Al-Qaradawi
[75] praises this group as "the people of moderation" (Sls! al).

Looking at the writings of this group, every abrogation claim was rejected

12. How Dip Tuis HAPPEN? 12.2. How Dip It TAKE HOLpD?

by at least one scholar, as we have seen in §3.1. While the Abrogation Doctrine
was not rejected by any of them, every abrogation claim was. Thus, all the
parts were rejected, but the whole wasn't.

The dread of rejecting the Abrogation Doctrine as a whole may be due to
a broader concern: if a fundamental issue like the Abrogation Doctrine was
proven false, this could be just the start. What else among the fundamentals
would be attacked next?

This concern is not valid. What is certain in sourcing will never be proven
wrong, and that includes all the basic tenets of the religion. On the other hand,
what tradition has formulated over time, regardless of how long it lasted,
can always be subject to debate to test its validity. Examples of this have
already occurred in Islamic history, as we will see in §12.3.1. When things
are reexamined, it is completely logical to expect that the vast majority of the
tradition, but not all of it, will stand the test of time.

Nonetheless, the perceived calamity in challenging something as established
as the Abrogation Doctrine made scholars attack any dissent in strong terms.
It created pressure on everyone to conform to it, thus consolidating the cas-
cade. In their defense, one can look at these attacks as rational behavior by
those who not only believe that the dissenting opinion is wrong, but also that
it is dangerous and should be extinguished quickly before it creates fitna.

These are important considerations, no doubt. Upholding or rejecting the
Abrogation Doctrine has consequences. Nonetheless, whether to uphold it or
reject it is not decided by those consequences. It is decided by where the
truth is. If none of the abrogation claims meets the burden of proof needed to
overrule a Quranic verse, as we have seen in Part II of this book, no amount
of imitation, repercussions, or calls for unity can change that.

Recasting the above words of Al-Khazraji, anything but the truth is what
"raises doubts about the scholarship of this nation and its legacy." Islam is
called by God 'the religion of truth' (>! 25), and truth has priority over all
other considerations.

4) The other side of a cascade. As we have seen, the cascade of the
Abrogation Doctrine is perfectly logical given the strong factors that sustain
it. There is yet another factor that should be mentioned, and that factor is
also studied in social sciences. It is the diametric opposite of imitation; people
tend to specifically go against what their enemies assert, the same way they
tend to imitate their own.

This phenomenon is technically called 'reactive devaluation': "if people
seem to be from some group we distrust or dislike, ... we might say or do the
very opposite" (Sunstein [200]). What this has in common with imitation is
that neither is based on the substance of what is said, but rather on who said
it.

12. How Dip Tuis HAPPEN? 12.2. How Dip It TAKE HOLpD?

Zeid [206] addresses this point as it relates to Al-Jassas, a key figure who
helped cement the Abrogation Doctrine in the fourth hijri century. Al-Jassas
lived in Iraq, and was faced with attacks on abrogation by enemies of Islam
who objected to abrogation as a 'change of mind' by God (page 12). His
response was reactionary in nature, defending abrogation in all forms even
with an approach that "has clear weakness" (,»\b)\ sine).

The attacks on the Abrogation Doctrine from outside groups put Muslims
who had reservations about the doctrine in the untenable position of 'taking
the side of the enemy'. Indeed, they were attacked as such. Ibn Salama [170]
puts those who reject the Abrogation Doctrine in the same category as "the
atheists and the hypocrites" (cpatkeS\y -,4oLJ/) in terms of how God would
respond to them.

Even those within Islam who did not belong to the mainstream schools of
thought were considered outsiders whose reservations about the Abrogation
Doctrine were a reason to stand by the doctrine. Afana [7] put this as the
top factor as he enumerated the factors that helped spread the doctrine: "the
need of the [mainstream] sunna followers to respond quickly to the accusations
and attacks from other groups", with examples of Muslim groups who split
ideologically or politically from the mainstream.

In conclusion, the cascade of the Abrogation Doctrine was aided by mul-
tiple factors that we presented here. These factors occur naturally in the
human experience and do not reflect shortcomings. Nonetheless, they are fac-
tors that are not related to the evidentiary merits of the doctrine itself and
they contributed to the broad support that it enjoyed. Therefore, there is
no contradiction between such widespread support and the refutation of the
evidentiary merits of the doctrine presented in previous chapters.

12.2.2 Conflation

We now move to another important factor that contributed to the widespread
acceptance of the Abrogation Doctrine. This factor is quite puzzling. There
was nothing puzzling about cascades which we have just addressed. Cascades
happen naturally in human activities as shown in scientific research, imitation
is the key ingredient that enabled the cascade of the Abrogation Doctrine,
and other factors particular to our heritage have made that cascade quite
formidable. When it comes to conflation, the situation is harder to understand.

Conflation here means using the evidence for one thing as proof of another,
thus conflating the two notions. The only notion we are addressing in this book
is the Abrogation Doctrine, namely the abrogation of Quranic verses between
the two covers of the Quranic script (Ca 26! ods ox), not other types of
abrogation.

12. How Dip Tuis HAPPEN? 12.2. How Dip It TAKE HOLD?

The Abrogation Doctrine is the key point of contention in the abrogation
literature. Evidence for other types of abrogation is not relevant to the va-
lidity of the Abrogation Doctrine. Oftentimes, scholars who disagree with
the doctrine do not extend their dissent to other types of abrogation. Even
Al-Asfahani, the most famous dissenter in abrogation, fully accepted the ab-
rogation of previous scripture by the Quran (Nada [190)]).

Why is it then that many pro-abrogation scholars, when arguing for the
validity of the Abrogation Doctrine, cite evidence for other types of abroga-
tion as proof? This is the puzzling aspect, especially because of how often it
happens as we have already seen in §10.2. Of course, such conflation would
cast the Abrogation Doctrine with more merit than it has, thus boosting its
support undeservedly.

Other types of abrogation such as abrogation of previous scripture or abro-
gation of pre-Islamic traditions have no bearing whatsoever on the abrogation
of verses within the Quranic script. The object of abrogation in those cases is
not part of the Quran. That is outside the domain of the Abrogation Doctrine.

Nonetheless, evidence for these types of abrogation is used as if it were proof
that Quranic verses were abrogated. Al-Shingeiti [99] cites the prophethood
of Muhammad (PBUH) itself as decisive evidence since his prophethood would
not be valid without abrogating previous scripture, concluding: "so certainty
about abrogation is mandated" (qt eeull c=). This is in a book whose

title is unambiguously "Abrogated Verses in the Noble Quran".

Similarly, Farghali [136] uses the abrogation of previous scripture by Islam
as evidence that abrogation did occur. Nonetheless, like the book by Al-
Shingeiti, the main topic of Farghali's book is the abrogation of Quranic verses,
not of previous scripture. Makki [184] has a section explaining why abrogation
within the Quran is permissible, and he cites abrogation of previous scripture
as evidence. Many other books make the same non sequitur.

Even when the object of abrogation is not divine revelation, the same way
of conflation can be found in the literature. Tahir [202] enumerates different
ways the 'abrogation' of pre-Islamic traditions, such as dealing in usury, is
counted by some as evidence for the Abrogation Doctrine.

Another example of conflation is the frequent citing of a narration at-
tributed to Umar (RA) in the context of the Abrogation Doctrine (see §10.3).
In the narration, Umar (RA) describes Ubayy (Ra) as "the best reader [of the

gem

Quran] among us" (%1 U3 i). He then qualifies the statement by saying that
they leave out from what Ubayy (RA) reads. What is Umar (Ra)'s rationale
for that? It is that Ubayy (RA) says he would not leave out anything that he
heard from the Prophet (PBUH), as Umar (RA) cites what verse 2:106 says about

Recall that the expression "pro-abrogation" was defined in this book as being supportive
of the Abrogation Doctrine regardless of the views about other types of abrogation.

12. How Dip THis HAPPEN? 12.2. How Dip It TAKE HOLD?

abrogation.

Where is the conflation here? The Abrogation Doctrine is very specifically
about what scholars have oe "abrogation of the ruling but not of the
recitation" (3d) g93 eel ets . The abrogated verses remain in the Quranic
script and are recited as an eee part of the Quran. The narration by
Umar (RA) patently applies to abrogation of the recitation (Zeid [206]), since
his reservation was about Ubayy (RA) reading abrogated verses.

e Conflation is a form of inconsistency; evidence for one thing is used for
something else. We have already seen this inconsistency when we talked about
the semantic ambiguity of the word naskh, which conflated several meanings
of the word together and then used one meaning to argue for another.

There are other forms of inconsistency in the evolution of the Abrogation
Doctrine which created further unmerited support for it. These inconsistencies
have gone largely unchallenged in the literature, thus exacerbating their effect.
We will mention two types of this inconsistency.

The first inconsistency is between how scholars require stringent stan-
dards for abrogation claims, and then approve abrogation claims that patently
do not meet those standards. A striking example is what Zeid [206] and Al-
Arid [20], using very similar wording, assert as requirements for accepting
an abrogation claim, compared to how they actually deal with these claims.

They both require any valid abrogation claim in the Quranic script to be
attributed to the Prophet (PBUH) himself. If the Fellows (RA) are the source of
the claim, that would only be valid if they are conveying from the Prophet
(PBUH), with the chain of narration being correct and uninterrupted. Anything
else would not be acceptable as a valid abrogation claim.

Had they adhered to this requirement, they should have invalidated all
abrogation claims. Islamic scholars have been unanimous that no authentic
statement exists where the Prophet (PBUH) has explicitly designated a verse in
the Quranic script as abrogated. The reality is that Zeid and Al-Arid did not
adhere to their own requirement at all. For example, Zeid [206] goes on to
approve the abrogation claim? of verse 4:43 in all of two paragraphs without
mentioning a single word that is remotely attributable to the Prophet (PBUH).

Other pro-abrogation scholars require rejection of any abrogation claim
whose verses can be reconciled, e.g., Al- Zurqani [128] who proclaims that "any
facet of interpretation" (Justa 25-9 yt Amy i) is acceptable for reconciliation.
He goes on to approve patently reconcilable claims like that of verse 2:240 (see

$4.1).

It is not clear why such inconsistency took place. It could be that the
pressure to approve certain abrogation claims to conform to traditional views

See §4.2 for the refutation of this claim.

12. How Dip Tuis HAPPEN? 12.3. FINAL THOUGHTS

played some role. Whatever the reasons are, such inconsistency certainly
boosted the abrogation claims thus contributing undue support for the Abro-
gation Doctrine.

The second inconsistency occurs when abrogation is used as a recon-
ciliation tool in Islamic jurisprudence. A perceived conflict between religious
texts is clearly something that scholars paid attention to and tried to recon-
cile. Claiming abrogation would certainly resolve such a conflict. However,
a conflict could be perceived where no real conflict exists. If a claim of abroga-
tion is introduced to reconcile a misconstrued conflict, this creates abrogation
claims where none should be and unduly boosts the Abrogation Doctrine.

This phenomenon is recognized by major scholars. For example, Ibn Taymia
[175] makes this point repeatedly. In one quote, he asserts that "many of the
predecessors mean by the term 'abrogation' the lifting of what they think the

verse signifies" ( ale Ul> ani ol "ye Ls ey cel seal) yy LS oe 2S).

The inconsistency of employing abrogation when there is nothing to rec-
oncile played a role in the spread of the Abrogation Doctrine (Afana |7]).
The sheer frequency of invoking abrogation in Islamic jurisprudence when-
ever a conflict is perceived made the Abrogation Doctrine so entrenched in
the scholars' thought that it became unthinkable that such doctrine could
possibly be invalid.

It should be noted that the ready use of abrogation as a reconciliation tool
may have been boosted by the semantic ambiguity of the word naskh which we
addressed in §12.1.1. The other meanings of the word, such as exception and
qualification, are valid tools for reconciliation between two texts. The fact that
the word naskh was routinely used in the early era of Islam to designate these
tools, e.g., in the narrations attributed to Ibn Abbas (RA) and in the expression
'partial abrogation' by Abu-Hanifa (Zeid [206]), may have normalized the use
of abrogation as a reconciliation tool. Of course when the word naskh was
later restricted to mean only abrogation, using that for reconciliation became
far more consequential.

In conclusion, between conflation and other forms of inconsistency, and
between imitation and aversion to dissent, the Abrogation Doctrine had am-
ple reason to take hold. The end result is that we have a doctrine whose
widespread acceptance far exceeds its evidentiary merit.

12.3. Final Thoughts

We can now put the entire case against the Abrogation Doctrine to rest. We
have refuted the doctrine by staying true to the high burden of proof needed
to overrule a Quranic verse and applying that to every abrogation claim to
invalidate it. Once there were no abrogation claims to contend with, the case in

12. How Dip Tuis HAPPEN? 12.3. FINAL THOUGHTS

principal was complete. We followed that by discussing other, general evidence
that seemed to support the doctrine and refuted that as well to alleviate any
concerns about it. We concluded by explaining how a doctrine that is so flawed
could still survive with so many people for so long.

In the rest of the chapter, we will discuss coming to terms with the refuta-
tion of the Abrogation Doctrine. There is no doubt that some scholars have
already had strong reservations about the doctrine even if they kept that to
themselves. There is also no doubt that some scholars will never accept the
refutation of a doctrine so entrenched in Islamic history regardless of the argu-
ments. Other scholars will weigh the evidence presented here and reach their
own conclusions one way or the other.

For the readers who are wondering about the ramifications of this situation,
this section will provide some context. We will look at history to gain insight
into somewhat similar situations from the past. We will also look at the impact
that the Abrogation Doctrine has had in order to gain insight into how things
may unfold in the future.

12.3.1 Similar Situations In History

If the refutation of the Abrogation Doctrine is to gain traction, it will un-
doubtedly be quite a feat in Islamic scholarship. However, it will not be the
first time that a long-standing view in Islam was reversed once and for all. We
will discuss two instances in history where this happened before in order to
gain insight into the dynamics of a situation like this.

e The first instance is about a made-up story involving the Prophet (PBUH) that
gained traction among early exegetes and other scholars before it was rejected
by most scholars later on. The story is that while the Prophet (PBUH) was
reciting some Quranic verses, Satan injected some fake words between them
that pay respect to the idols that were worshiped before Islam. The story is
known by the name Gharaneeg (33\4\ - a type of bird in the crane family)
because the word was included in what Satan allegedly injected.

A lot has been written about this story over the centuries, including dif-
ferent versions of what happened. The details of the story are not critical to
this discussion. We are interested here in the history of its rise and fall since
it once took hold as the Abrogation Doctrine has.

Looking at the major books of exegesis in the early days of Islam, the
story is portrayed there as a fact. For example, in the interpretation of verse
22:52, Al-Tabari [107] prominently includes this story. Al-Tabari's book is
the oldest comprehensive exegesis that has been preserved. It captures much

3Verse 22:52 was discussed in detail in §11.4.

12. How Dip Tuis HAPPEN? 12.3. FINAL THOUGHTS

of the state of knowledge up till that point, and it has been quite influential
on subsequent scholars.

point of interest

It should be noted that Al-Tabari emphasized preserving all the in-
formation that had reached him from all sources, which created an
unparalleled record of knowledge for future generations. Nonethe-
less, not all the information that he included was critically evalu-
ated by him in terms of authenticity.

Other exegetes followed suit for more than a century after Al-Tabari, with-
out challenging the story. Those include Al-Thaalabi [110], Al-Baghawi [23],
and Al-Zamakhshari {124]. If you look at the Islamic literature through the
fifth hijri century, this story was widespread and treated as a true event that
had taken place in the life of the Prophet (PBUH).

Between the fifth and sixth hijri centuries, scholars started to challenge
the authenticity of the story. A number of notable scholars, including Ibn Al-
Arabi [145] and later Al-Razi [83], attacked the story very strongly and with
very detailed analysis. These views, novel at the time, profoundly shifted the
tide toward rejecting the story.

In the following three centuries, major exegetes have dramatically shifted to
the new direction of rejecting the story, including Al-Qurtubi [80], Al-Ghornati
[47], Al-Khazen [62], Ibn Kathir [163], and Al-Thaalibi [111]. They refuted
the story and sometimes criticized their predecessors who had supported it.

There are indications that dissenting from an entrenched tradition like this
was not an easy step for these scholars. Some struck a reconciliatory tone, e.g.
Al-Baydawi [31]. Some tried to find a middle ground by advocating a more
'benign' version of the story. The original story had the Prophet (PBUH) recite
the fake verses that Satan had injected, and that just went too far against basic
tenets of the religion. Apparently, as a compromise, some scholars of that era
such as Al-Nasafi [72] adopted a version where it was Satan who recited those
fake verses and the voice was mistaken for that of the Prophet (PBUH).

There is also evidence that the rejection of the story, in one version or an-
other, was not universal. Although the vast majority of scholars unequivocally
reject the story today, there were few that renewed the interest in it over the
centuries. The most notable are two scholars who lived around the same era
and in geographical vicinity, Ibn Hajar [155] then Al-Suyuti [102]. They cited
the inauthentic narrations that created the story and relaxed the criterion of
accepting them (Al-Albani [16]). These scattered efforts failed to resurrect the
story in mainstream thought.

In hindsight, it may be hard to imagine how any scholar bought into this

12. How Dip Tuis HAPPEN? 12.3. FINAL THOUGHTS

story in the first place. The very nature of religion may have been a factor.
We believe in the unseen based on what God conveyed to us through his
Prophet (PBUH), even if we do not fully comprehend it. Therefore, when scholars
looked at this story and thought that it was authentic based on the narrations
they had, they had no choice but to believe it. Their effort went into trying
to reconcile it with the tenets of religion, not into refuting the story itself.
This process has some similarities with what happened with the Abrogation
Doctrine:

1. The culprit for starting this story was the inauthentic narrations that
were treated as authentic at the time. Some scholars argue that the sen-
sational nature of the story helped spread these narrations, e.g., Ayyadd
[133] and Al-Khazen [62] who blame "those who are fond of anything

strange" (Cae JX: ogelyell).

2. Once the story was accepted by some scholars, a cascade of acceptance
by others followed. The conflict between the story and what we know
about God and His Prophet (PBUH) was either ignored or explained away.

3. The interpretation of a specific verse in the Quran was tilted to support
the narrative, both in the case of the Gharaneegq story and in the case of
the Abrogation Doctrine:

3 of
- Verse 22:52, [of : il rf - acazal 3 Ole eee . (".... Satan cast
into his umniyya ...") was made to fit the Gharaneeg story by ignoring
its context (previous verse, 22:51) which points to a different interpreta-
tion,' and stretching the Arabic word umniyya to signify one of its rare
meanings: recitation.

- Verse 2:106, [11:3 21] if es al ye ome la ("Whatever verse We
may abrogate ...") was made to fit the Abrogation Doctrine by ignoring
its context (previous verse, 2:105) which points to a different interpre-
tation,®> and stretching the word verse to signify an altered meaning:
ruling in a verse.

The Gharaneeg story is now fully discredited. Some modern exegetes, such
as Ibn Ashur [153], Al-Maraghi [69], and Al-Shaarawi [92], only mention the
story as an obvious mistake in history and reprimand those who advocated it.
Qutb [191] dismisses it in decisive terms: "it is not proper to be a subject of
discussion" (431 Lepeys Or ol on Y), and other modern exegetes don't
even mention it at all, e.g., Al-Qasimi [77], AIRA [131], and SCIA [201]. Mod-
ern narration scholar Al-Albani [16] wrote a dedicated book that demolishes

4See the context and interpretation of verse 22:52 in §11.4.
5See the context and interpretation of verse 2:106 in §9.4.1.

12. How Dip Tuis HAPPEN? 12.3. FINAL THOUGHTS

the story, both in terms of its sourcing and its substance.®

This does not mean that we do not see some individuals re-adopting the
story from time to time. That is inevitable in a diverse community of scholars.
The key point is that the story has dropped out of mainstream Islamic thought
for centuries now. For scholars who have profound reservations about such
a story, and would have had to conform to its widespread acceptance, this
must be quite a relief.

e The second historical instance of something that was widely accepted and
was later refuted is related directly to the Abrogation Doctrine. It is the
claim that verse 2:240 that gave a year-long residence right to widows was
abrogated by verse 2:234 that specified her grace period as a shorter horizon.
We discussed this abrogation claim in great detail in §4.1.

Almost every abrogation book from the first six hijri centuries approved
this abrogation claim, including Ibn Sallam [171], Al-Nahhas [71], Ibn Salama
[170], Al-Baghdadi [24], Makki [184], and Ibn Al-Jawzi [147]. Major exegetes
from that era, most notably Al-Tabari [107], also approved the claim.

It went beyond just approving it. Some scholars of that era considered
the claim strong enough to be used as proof that the Abrogation Doctrine in
general must be valid. Al-Jassas [56] uses this claim as an example in a section
called "Evidence that abrogation is allowed". Al-Baji [28] uses this claim as
an example of "the validity of abrogation of the ruling but not the recitation."
Al-Zahiri [121], trying to prove a point about the order of verses in the Quranic
script, went as far as claiming that verse 2:240 is abrogated "by unanimity of
the entire nation" (YIS 4) glexb)."

In spite of this overwhelming support for the abrogation claim, some in-
dications of dissent started to appear in the sixth hijri century. Al-Razi
[83] discussed different views, for and against the abrogation claim, includ-
ing a very early view by Mujahid that had not gained traction, and the view
of Al-Asfahani that was widely dismissed. After discussing the different views,
Al-Razi sided with non-abrogation.

Dissent gained a huge boost in the seventh and eighth hijri centuries when
highly respected scholar Ibn Taymia rejected the claim. His student Ibn Kathir
[163] published the dissenting view of Ibn Taymia, and expressed the same
opinion himself; there is no abrogation because verse 2:234 is about duties
of the widow whereas verse 2:240 is about rights of the widow. Obvious as
this argument may be, it was still the stature of Ibn Taymia that gave it the
leverage to be taken seriously.

The argument of Ibn Taymia and Ibn Kathir against the abrogation of verse

6 Al-Albani chose a colorful title for the book, depicting catapults shooting at the story
to demolish it.
"See §10.3 for a discussion of unanimity claims.

12. How Dip Tuis HAPPEN? 12.3. FINAL THOUGHTS

2:240 stood the test of time. It made it possible for later scholars to assert
this obvious reconciliation between the two verses and reject the abrogation
claim without repercussions. Nonetheless, that was not enough to completely
reverse the impact of an entrenched tradition as many scholars continued to
approve the claim in the centuries that followed, e.g., Al-Suyuti [100] and
Waliyullah [203].

By the modern era, the obvious reconciliation argument has prevailed and
scholars routinely reject the claim based on it. As Zeid [206] phrases it, "and
as it is intuitive that the right would not conflict with the duty, a verse that
determines the right would not conflict with a verse that determines the duty"
(AT es Godly AT Gay VW cad) oe Corll Gayle V aoall oF Gad op ol LS
cals! 543). Qutb [191] also mentions right versus duty and quickly dismisses
the abrogation claim. Al-Shaarawi [92] presents the reconciliation view as
a forgone conclusion without even mentioning abrogation as an alternative.

It is puzzling how many scholars over the centuries did not embrace the
obvious reconciliation argument. This abrogation claim is one of the easiest
to refute. There is simply no conflict between the two verses. Yet, it is one of
the most famous claims that persisted for centuries.

This shows the power of a cascade. When some scholars take one side,
it becomes more difficult for subsequent scholars to take the other side, and
the cascade grows as a result. It took the dissent of a towering figure like
Ibn Taymia to break this cascade. Once it was broken, the lack of substance
in the claim gradually prevailed over the sheer number of supporters that the
claim had had before.

Similar to the reversal in the case of the Gharaneeg story, reversal in the
support of the abrogation claim of verse 2:240 is still not universal. Some
scholars choose to present both the abrogation view and the reconciliation view
without taking sides, e.g., Ibn Uthaymin [177]. Some scholars still support
the claim and even use it as proof for the Abrogation Doctrine, e.g., Farghali
[136]. Nonetheless, rejecting the claim is now the norm, whereas in the early
centuries, accepting it was not only the norm, it was so strong that Al-Zahiri
[121] claimed it was unanimous.

What was the impact of reversing the long tradition in this instance? The
main impact was removing the source of an injustice that was committed in the
name of this abrogation claim. There is no question that there were Muslim
women who were in a most vulnerable position, having lost their husbands,
who were then deprived of a right that God explicitly mandated for them.®
This right would have given them time to get back on their feet. It was taken
away under the pretense of an abrogation claim that passed from generation
to generation, until it was corrected centuries later.

8See §4.1.1 for scholarly quotes about how definitive this mandate is.

12. How Dip Tuis HAPPEN? 12.3. FINAL THOUGHTS

Correcting a course of action that resulted from the opinions of past schol-
ars does not mean disrespect for those scholars. On the contrary, it means that
we are honoring them by doing what they expressly asked us to do, namely
to not follow their opinions without critically examining their reasoning. As
we noted earlier, Ibn Al-Qayyim [150] reported that all four Imams of Islamic
schools of thought, Abu-Hanifa, Malik, Al-Shafei, and Ibn Hanbal, "admon-
ished against imitating them, and disparaged those who take their opinion
without proof."

point of interest

We owe the scholars of the early centuries of Islam an immense
debt of gratitude for the gigantic body of knowledge that they
created. Not only did they do that with very limited resources,
but sometimes they did it at considerable personal risk.

No one after the death of the Prophet (PBUH) is infallible. When a scholar
inadvertently makes a mistake, like that of approving a false abrogation claim
that deprives some Muslims of a God-given right, there is no question that
the scholar would have wanted that mistake to be corrected. Honoring him is
to correct the mistake, not to let it propagate. This is how we would be on
his side, not on the side of a mistake.

That last point was inscribed into Islamic conduct by a Prophetic nar-
ration. The Prophet (PBUH) was addressing his fellows about what to do if
a Muslim brother is being wronged, and what to do if he is wronging others.
He told them to help their brother prevail, whichever side he was on. Someone
naturally asked: I help him prevail when he is on the right side, but how could
I do that when he is on the wrong side? The Prophet (PBUH) answered: "By
stopping him from the wrong; that's how he would prevail" (Al-Bukhari [35]).

12.3.2 Going Forward

There are lessons to be learned from the two historical instances that we
have just discussed, the Gharaneeq story and the widow's abrogation claim,
about what happens when a long-standing concept within Islamic scholarship
is reversed. Two lessons are clear. The reversal happens gradually, and not
everyone will accept it.

We would like to address the same question in the case of the Abrogation
Doctrine. Of course, the doctrine has not yet been reversed. However, one may
argue that the reversal process has already started, given the unprecedented
number of scholars over the past century who openly rejected the doctrine as
we have seen in §11.3.

12. How Dip THis HAPPEN? 12.3. FINAL THOUGHTS

What would happen if the refutation of the doctrine gained traction? The
magnitude of the doctrine is significantly bigger than either of the two in-
stances we already discussed, in terms of the penetration it has in various
parts of Islamic thought such as exegesis, jurisprudence, etc. However, when
it comes to the practical impact that the doctrine has, it may not be that big
anymore.

Over the centuries, the practical impact of the Abrogation Doctrine has
been gradually depleted through the diminishing number of abrogation claims
that are still approved. The two most agreed claims, that of verses 73:1-4 about
night prayer (§5.3) and that of verse 58:12 about private consultation (§5.1)
have no practical impact. In the case of night prayer, we are not required to do
this prayer whether the claim is valid (hence the requirement was abrogated)
or not (hence the requirement applied only to the Prophet (PBuUH)). In the case
of private consultation, whatever requirement there was ended with the death
of the Prophet (PBUH).

The claims that had significant practical impact, such as that of the sword
verse (§6.2) and the widow's residence (§4.1), have now been thoroughly re-
futed. In some sense, the Abrogation Doctrine has been stripped of its power
by eliminating its influential claims rather than by rejecting the doctrine as
a whole. This is somewhat similar to a king who used to rule, and now 'owns
but does not rule' and is just a symbolic figure. This was a way to effectively
reject the Abrogation Doctrine without explicitly rejecting it (Al-Banna [29]).

So why is this not a satisfactory compromise? Why stir up a hornet's nest
by overruling the doctrine itself, thus contradicting so much of the Islamic
literature by so many respected scholars? The reason is simple. The truth has
priority. We must "... counsel each other with the truth ..." [103:3] \5.01535 ...

[vs pas] € ss GLb. Otherwise, we will be 'lingering in a loss' ge 4).

Moreover, the cost of reversal may not be as severe as some think. Take
the Gharaneegq story for example. There was no practical impact for the story
in daily life whether it was accepted or rejected. Yet, it was paramount to
reject it in order to cleanse the religion from an ugly myth that compromised
its crisp beliefs. When this was achieved, the benefit of standing for those
beliefs far outweighed any implications about past literature or past scholars.

There have indeed been ideological consequences for the Abrogation Doc-
trine (Tahir [202]), even as its practical impact has diminished. Rejecting the
doctrine altogether will rid the future of these consequences. However, we do
not reject the doctrine because of its harmful consequences. We reject it be-
cause it is not true. We are only addressing these consequences that rejecting
the doctrine will eliminate because this is the subject at hand. Here are some
examples that we have covered in more detail in §11.1.

Rejecting the Abrogation Doctrine will put an end to reciting Quranic

12. How Dip THis HAPPEN? 12.3. FINAL THOUGHTS

verses with the intention of not following them, under the pretense of abroga-
tion of the ruling but not the recitation. This prevents a trap that the Quran
warns about in decisive terms: "It is greatly detested in the sight of God that

you say what you do not do." [61:3] ] € Glass Yi 1) 35 Pe Si ah the tks 3S

[Y: za]l]. Even if they are only a few verses whose abrogation claims have sur-
vived so far, a Muslim would still be untruthful in reciting those verses with
no intention of following them. Ironically, this untruthfulness is happening
while he is reading the words of God.

Rejecting the Abrogation Doctrine will also eliminate the uncertainty that
abrogation claims have injected into the Quran. When anyone reads a verse,
they will have no doubt about whether it is valid, as promised by: "This book

- there is no doubt in it ..." [2:2] [¢ : 3,41] © a And O35 5 Y SES NS . T he
search for abrogated verses, which devolved into a ace to find more
of them, resulted in 432 abrogation claims over the centuries. This shows the
magnitude of this uncertainty.

Rejecting the Abrogation Doctrine will therefore make us read the Quran
with the proper attitude: "Don't they ponder the Quran? If it had been from
[any] other than God, they would have found in it much disagreement" |4: :82]

[AS: Ltd € eS Bde 4.3 1,35) aE she 52 36 35 OTSA S75 6555 Sl .
When we perceive a conflict, we will recognize that it is only our perception,
and we will think deeply to understand the subtleties in the verses that create
harmony, not conflict.

Finally, rejecting the Abrogation Doctrine will put an end to blatant in-
consistencies that compromise the integrity of Islamic scholarship:

1. We are not going to require the knowledge of which verses are abrogated
as a prerequisite for every scholar, when in fact all the pro-abrogation
scholars have not agreed on even one abrogation claim.

2. We are not going to raise the requirement for abrogation of a Quranic
verse when we theorize about it, then lower that requirement when we
apply it to a given claim.

The Abrogation Doctrine, which permitted the annulment of certain
Quranic rulings, has been one of the most polarizing issues in Islamic scholar-
ship. To the proponents of the doctrine, it is a settled matter and overruling it
would be an unacceptable bidaa (novelty). To the opponents of the doctrine,
it is fundamentally flawed and has been the biggest bidaa in Islamic history
as it overrules the Quran itself. Every scholar should look at the evidence
objectively and decide, in their heart of hearts, where the truth is.

12. How Dip Tuis HAPPEN? 12.3. FINAL THOUGHTS

uCe~

In the Quran, God describes Islam as j>J| -,> - the religion of truth. For
more than a decade, we sought the truth above any other consideration in
researching the abrogation issue. Whatever we have done right, we thank
God for enabling us to do it. Whatever we have done wrong, we ask for His
forgiveness.

Part IV

Attachments

V Ve now include attachments that complement the material
of the book. The three attachments are the Appendix, the
References section, and the Index.

We have a 7-part Appendix that covers the side notes, the list
of abrogation claims, the full text of all authentic narrations
about abrogation claims, short biographies of some scholars,
the full time line of pertinent scholars over the centuries, the
order of revelation in the Quran, and a discussion of types of
abrogation outside the scope of the Abrogation Doctrine.

We follow with the References section which has bibliograph-
ical information of all the references that were cited in this
book. We close with a 3-part Index; index of terms, index of
personalities, and index of Quranic verses.

Appendix

A.1 Side Notes

The following notes are detailed comments about the points referenced by
margin numbers throughout the book. The page numbers point to the first
instance where the note is referenced.

| [PAGE 3] The claim of abrogation of the Quranic passage "There is no com-
pulsion in religion ..." [¢o1: 3 251] { is cpl glS} Y ® appears in a number
of older references on abrogation, e.g., Ibn Sallam [171], Ibn Salama [170],
and Ibn Al-Jawzi [147]. The claim has been largely dismissed (see Zeid [206}),
and it is seldom even acknowledged in the abrogation literature over the past
several centuries. We address this claim and related claims in §6.2.

") [PAGE 5] Over the centuries, a number of technical definitions of abrogation

"were introduced (Zeid {206]) in addition to the linguistic meanings of naskh.

While these definitions emphasized different angles such as duration and ter-
mination of the rulings involved, and used different terms for the details of
abrogation, they all asserted that a ruling in the Quranic script has been an-
nulled as a result of abrogation. This annulment is what we address in this
book regardless of all other aspects of the definitions of abrogation.

[PAGE 6] The fact that the Prophet (PBUH) has never designated a verse in

/the Quranic script as abrogated is not challenged in the literature, and is
specifically mentioned in the book of Al-Amidi [18]. As Asad [130] states it,
"there does not exist a single reliable Tradition to the effect that the Prophet
ever declared a verse of the Qur'an to have been 'abrogated*"

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

/| [PAGE 7] The Arabic text of the part of the narration about the graves ("I
° [Muhammad] had forbidden you from visiting the graves; now visit them") is

(mers) oy Bags GRAY ye cal bby oe) "Lyd Gill BL oe KEE"

The narration was reported and rated authentic (~>2) by Muslim [189]
and narrated by Abu-Musa Al-Ashaari and Burayda ibn Al-Husayb. There
are other narrations that similarly address the part about visiting the graves.

[~ [PAGE 8] The fact that none of the abrogation claims has unanimous ap-

/ proval among pro-abrogation scholars can be established by looking at just
four scholars; Shah Waliyullah, Mostafa Zeid, Abu-Jaafar Al-Nahhas, and Ja-
mal Al-Deen Al-Isnawi. All four are pro-abrogation as evidenced by their
approval of some abrogation claims as we will elaborate.

Waliyullah approved only the claims that verses 2:180, 2:240, 8:65, 33:52,
and 58:12 are abrogated, and rejected all other abrogation claims (Waliyullah
[203]). Zeid approved only the claims that verses 4:15-16, 4:43, 8:65, 58:12,
and 73:1-4 are abrogated, and rejected all other abrogation claims (Zeid [206]).
Thus the only two claims that they both approved are the Steadfastness in
Battle claim (verse 8:65, discussed in §5.2) and the Private Consultation claim
(verse 58:12, discussed in §5.1).

Al-Nahhas rejected the first of these two claims, the Steadfastness in Battle
claim (Al-Nahhas {71]). He approved many other abrogation claims, e.g., the
abrogation of verse 2:240 about widow's residence (Al-Nahhas [71]).

Al-Isnawi rejected the second of the two claims, the Private Consultation
claim (Al-Isnawi [52]). He approved other abrogation claims, e.g., the abro-
gation of verse 2:240 about widow's residence (Al-Isnawi [52]). Here are some
details of his discussion of the Private Consultation claim:

1. He cites Al-Asfahani's refutation of the claim and Al-Urmawi's rebuttal
to it (Al-Urmawi [114] referred to by the book title 'The Yield' - jell),
then knocks down Al-Urmawi's rebuttal as inconsistent with another
opinion of his (Al-Urmawi [114]) related to the Contingency validation
rule.

2. He then cites another rebuttal to Al-Asfahani's view, this time by Imam
Al-Baydawi, and counters this rebuttal, again siding with the rejection
of the abrogation claim.

Therefore, between Waliyullah, Zeid, Al-Nahhas, and Al-Isnawi, all abro-
gation claims have been rejected by at least one of these four pro-abrogation
scholars. This establishes the fact that not a single abrogation claim has been
agreed upon by all pro-abrogation scholars.

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

[PAGE 10] Abdullah Ibn Masoud (RA) is a distinguished fellow of the Prophet
/ (PBUH) who moved to Iraq and established a scholarly center there. He died!
in the hijri year 32;

PYVS Tages op all we

Here is a list of his most recognized fellows:

1. Alqama ibn Qays - died in the hijri year 62;
BUYS 1 bg re ed cy dnile

2. Al-Aswad ibn Yazeed (son of Alqama's brother) - died in the hijri
year 75;

AYO : (ddile a on) tS ALR oR aged

3. Ibrahim Al-Nakhei (son of Al-Aswad's sister) - died in the héjri year
96;

BAIS pe CHL eel) AS er ae ot ently!
4. Al-Harith ibn Qays - died in the hijri year 77;
5. Uabayda ibn Aamer Al-Salmani - died in the hijri year 73;
AVYS hg I SN pS) lee) ale oy Sige
6. Masrooqg ibn Al-Ajdaa - died in the hijri year 62;
AVS dS onl cy By pane

For perspective, Abdullah Ibn Abi-Najeeh who attributed the key narra-
tion about abrogation of the ruling but not the recitation to the fellows of
Ibn Masoud died in the hijri year 131;

while Mujahid ibn Jabr who was included in the chain of narration by Ibn Abi-
Najeeh died in the hijri year 103;

a\i~o Soll poe oF dal.

? [PAGE 11] In his comprehensive book about the Quran, Al-Suyuti [100] nar-
rows down the abrogation claims to twenty and discusses those claims briefly,

lt is customary to identify early scholars by their date of death rather than their date
of birth. Records of birth were not kept in that era. When they became known scholars,
their date of death became noteworthy and was recorded.

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

referring to a more detailed account in another manuscript that he wrote which
he described as "Ca,.b) LaJb" (nice composition) without specifying the title of
the manuscript.

A footnote by the verifier of the above book mentions a pointer to that
manuscript. The same pointer is also mentioned in a reference by Al-Shaybani
[97| entitled "Guide to Manuscripts of Al-Suyuti and their Locations". It
specifies the location of the manuscript to be the Sulaymaniya Library in
Istanbul, Turkey.

We visited this library and examined the manuscript in person with the
help of the library administration. Unfortunately, it is mislabeled and is not
Al-Suyuti's manuscript. We also examined several other labeled and unlabeled
manuscripts about abrogation there, and none of them was Al-Suyuti's.

Further attempts to locate the manuscript were not successful, thus con-
firming the statement by Zeid [206] that he did not encounter the manuscript.
It is remarkable that despite the loss of the manuscript, Al-Suyuti's views
about abrogation had a full impact based only on the summary writeup in his
other book.

© [PAGE 22] Narrations refer to two words in Arabic, G.4> (hadith) and A

'(athar). Imam Ibn Baz was asked about the difference between athar and
hadith. He answered that both terms have been used interchangeably to mean
a narration that traces back to the Prophet (PBUH) or one of his Fellows (Ra). But
some scholars, notably those from the Khorasan region, called for a distinction
between the two terms, that hadith traces back to the Prophet and athar
doesn't. This has become the most frequent usage of the two terms according
to Ibn Baz. We follow this convention in this book by calling the hadith
Prophetic narration and athar a narration.

(\ [PAGE 24] The statement that "the uncertain does not abrogate the certain"

has a subtle flaw. Uncertainty in sourcing relates only to whether the words
truly belong to the Prophet (PBUH). It is still possible that he did say those
words, but there is simply no way to find out if he did.

If abrogation of a Quranic verse by a Prophetic narration was possible,
and the Prophet (PBUH) did say those words, then abrogation took place even
if we are uncertain about it. The subtle flaw is that being uncertain about
something is not the same as knowing that it did not happen.

If we are just deducing what the ruling should be, then "the uncertain
does not abrogate the certain" applies in the sense that "we cannot overrule
a ruling that is certain based on another ruling that is uncertain". However, if
we are addressing the question of whether one ruling did abrogate the other,

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

the truthful answer to this specific question is "there is no way to find out".

\ [PAGE 26] Literary scholars of Arabic have identified the following as methods
' of elaboration of text:

¢ Disambiguating a vagueness (ag)! 8)
¢ Defining a generic (le) 1.4)

¢ Detailing a brief (b=J! |2s')
e Specifying a generality (eld! a)

The difference between these methods is technical as each helps explain
the effect on the text they elaborate. A vagueness is an ambiguous word
or phrase. Elaborating it, therefore, is done by disambiguation. A generic
is an unambiguous but broad word or phrase. Elaborating it, therefore, is
done by defining it. A brief is an undetailed word or phrase. Elaborating it,
therefore, is done by detailing it. A generality is an unspecific word or phrase.
Elaborating it, therefore, is done by specifying it.

Specification may be done by qualification, exception, license, or alter-
natives. Qualification of a text is done by specifying to whom it applies.
Exception is to specify to whom it does not apply. Specification may also be
done by handling conditions that are relevant to the text being elaborated.
For instance, a license gives an allowance and alternatives give options.

The following are some examples of that.

DS es Cm clas Shag QlAligll BF Le Cad SLES
[V: Lull] { Log} ae ned FS 5) Abe Le S855 Glas
[4:7] To men shall be a share of what the parents and relatives
have left and to women shall be a share of what parents and relatives
have left - a determinate share.

" a

In this verse about inheritance, "men", "women", and "relatives" are all
generic until they were defined in subsequent verses 4:11-12 and 4:176. Also,
"a share" is a brief until it was detailed in verses 4:11-12 and 4:176 as well.
The purpose of using generics and a brief is to establish a principle first before
getting into the details. That principle is that women also shall inherit and
that inheritance shares are mandated by God, not by man.

Another example,

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

be Goll OS US pul ede GS LcT all Wal GD
pia hes js bua @ 69285 ola -eo3
Sa San as ig Hoa Guth Jos ll be Hab Jo
Gyles BS 8) 2 FS Wyte SG DBS ab GS Es
[vAg- ee ik

[2:183] O you who have believed, decreed upon you is fasting as it
was decreed upon those before you that perhaps you may attain piety.

(2:184] Numbered days. So whoever among you was ill or on
a journey [during them] - then a[n equal] number of other days [are
to be fasted]. And upon those would endure [the fast] - a ransom of
feeding a poor person. And whoever volunteers better - it is better
for him. And to fast is better for you, if you would know.

In these verses about ritual fasting, the particulars of fasting, the number
of days to fast, when it is to start and end each day, and in what month are all
missing from the brief mandate of fasting. The reason they are not detailed yet
is to establish the principle of a mandatory fast first and to explain why it has
been mandated: so that believers may attain piety. The month was defined
in subsequent verse 2:185 to be Ramadan. The times to begin and end the
fast were defined in subsequent verse 2:187 and the Prophet (PBUH) detailed
the particulars of fasting in his practice (the sunna).

Verse 2:184 further makes two specifications: (a) a license for the ill and
the traveling to make up the fast later, and (b) an alternative, an expiation
for those who can hardly bear to fast, by feeding a poor person for each day
they do not fast.

Finally, an example of disambiguating a vagueness,

{ C38 25 SB SANG BH ey GS GyUEIy Uy >
[y-\ : 5 UaSI]
[86:1] By the sky and by the knocker.

[86:2] And what could make you understand what the knocker is?
[86:3] [It is] the piercing star.

Here, the third verse disambiguates the vagueness of the word "the knocker"

mentioned in the first verse. The purpose of using a vague word first is to draw
attention to its grandeur.

[PAGE 27] We described the effect of refuting all the known abrogation claims
as "rendering the Abrogation Doctrine moot" rather than "proving that the

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

Abrogation Doctrine is false" because of a subtle point. The Abrogation Doc-
trine asserts that there are abrogated verses in the Quranic script, notwith-
standing that none are designated as such. Given that, it is conceivable that
there would be abrogated verses outside the known abrogation claims.

However, as we elaborate in §11.1.3, having abrogated verses in the Quranic
script that cannot be identified goes against the Quranic promise:

[v5 € 43 C5 Y SUSHI GUS >

[2:2] This Book - there is no uncertainty in it ...

As Al-Zahiri [121] phrases it, "It cannot at all be that God Almighty left
us in blindness and loss, not knowing forever is this ruling abrogated or not
abrogated? This is something we were spared from ever occurring" (j4 Y
si Eps pSeall le bs lul Ugar Co VY ct dzy clear b LS She alll gS gl a
jai AS 554 lal os vA \a Sep =). We only used the expression "rendering the
Abrogation Doctrine moot" out of an abundance of caution about the logical
consequence.

") [PAGE 43] A technical point about reconciling the two verses of this claim

—is worth mentioning. The command "watch out for God as much as you can"
in verse 64:16 is interpreted as a lighter version of the command "watch out
for God as He ought to be watched" in verse 3:102. Strictly speaking, there is
no irreconcilable conflict between the two commands because neither of them
would be violated if the heavier command is followed. The conflict comes from
assuming that the lighter command implies that the heavier command is no
longer required. It is a reasonable assumption, but an assumption nonetheless.

Al-Shaarawi [92] provides an interesting view about the impact of follow-
ing each of the two commands. He argues that trying to follow the heavier
command will be successful in very limited cases, and it would be more bene-
ficial to settle for the lighter command because it can be followed much more
often.

[PAGE 45] Monasticism is mentioned in the Quran in the context of the fol-
lowers of Jesus (PBUH):

US Al ole, sesl VY] ale BES & 2.5551 Shs; ~}
[SV : atl] € .. Gee, \B5E5

[57:27] .... and monasticism, which they innovated; We did not
prescribe it for them except [that they did so] seeking the approval of
God. But they did not observe it with due observance ...

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

The verse asserts that monasticism is an innovation not mandated by God,
that the followers of Jesus (PBUH) meant it as a way to please God, and that
it was not practiced properly. There are also reported Prophetic narrations
against practicing monasticism in Islam, but their authenticity is question-
able.

[PAGE 71] A central word in verse 2:184 is "Bal" which we translated to
'would endure [the fast]. The word characterizes the exemption from the fast
that is subject to the abrogation claim by verse 2:185. Discussion of the claim
tends to focus in large part on the interpretation of this word. Opinions have
been expressed that the word signifies 'is able to do, but with difficulty' or just
'is able to do', with some interpretations postulating that it is a metaphor for
'unable to do'.

However, which interpretation of the word is more plausible is immaterial
to the abrogation discussion. Here is why. Regardless of the interpretation of
the word, there is a certain exemption in verse 2:184 that is not mentioned
again in verse 2:185. The reconciliation arguments in Step C have to do with
why this exemption is still valid notwithstanding that it was not mentioned
again, independently of what the exemption specifically entails.

[PAGE 73] The endurance exemption from fasting in verse 2:184, ".... And

/ upon those who would endure [the fast] - a ransom of feeding a poor person ..."
. z

[Vt : 3 a5] if ws cures elab G03 45 giles Sel S& is is not repeated in
verse 2:185. Al-Baghawi [23] asserts that the exemptions that are repeated
are confirmed while the exemption that was not repeated has been abrogated.

However, there are other instances in the Quran of something not repeated
but still valid. An example is the qualifier "after a bequest that is willed, or
debt [to be paid off]" that is mentioned (with different conjugations of a verb)
in two verses about inheritance (4:11-12) as something that needs to be taken
care of before the mandated shares of the estate are distributed among the
heirs. In a third verse about inheritance (4:176), further instructions about
distributing the shares of the estate are mandated, but without the qualifier
"after a bequest that is willed, or debt [to be paid off]".

There is not a single scholar that we know of who asserted that the shares
mandated in 4:176 are not subject to the qualifier and are to be distributed
from the full estate before bequests or debt. It stands to logic, as the qualifier
has already been established and need not be repeated to remain valid.

(~ [PAGE 94] While the claim that verse 58:12 was abrogated has now been

/ refuted, the reader may have some lingering questions. We present next such

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

questions and propose answers to them based on what exegetes and scholars
of circumstances of revelation have written. It should be noted that these
answers are educated guesses of the scholars or derived from their writings.
That is because the narrations they relied on were all 'singles' and most were
inauthentic.

1) Why did the poor not partake in the explicit exemption granted to them
in verse 58:12?

Answer: This is an important question to ponder, especially since, as re-
ported in a Prophetic narration authenticated by Al-Albani [11], "God
loves that His licenses are taken just as He hates that His prohibitions are
violated" (38 of ou Sho all of sd al pe onl oe abe only hee onl coe
Aa QRa es ol e: LS Ayes -)).

The scholars agreed that verse 58:12 addresses two groups of people seeking
private counsel with the Prophet (PBUH): those who can afford to pay a token
charity and those who cannot. They also agreed that verse 58:13 addresses
two subgroups of people both of whom did not comply with the charity
requirement. The first group was those who were afraid of becoming poor
if they offered a charity before consultation,? and the second group was
those who could but chose not to.? Both groups, as a result, stopped going
for private counsel with the Prophet (PBUH). Many scholars, such as Al-Tibi
(112], Al-Thaalabi [110] and Al-Maqdesi [68] explained the cause of the
stopping in the same way: the rich were stingy and the poor could not
afford it.

An important corollary can therefore be drawn from that: the poor who
could not afford to give the charity must have thought they were not ex-
empted from it, despite the explicit exemption of them in verse 58:12. Why
did they think that? One possible explanation is that they wanted to be
on the safe side. They did not want to risk being disobedient to God even
if it meant their questions went unasked. Another explanation could be
that they felt embarrassed showing up for consultation with empty hands.
Muslims of Medina were particularly praised in the Quran for their dignity,

NG; eA Ont ols by Shy 518 evcacelre

aw Of 35 egal E Sis Fei es 45 pay 3 5 5F
[ss Add SSL 2 BIL aus AL Ss aj Lalas

[59:9] And those who have settled at the abode and the faith
before them love those who migrated to them, do not feel in their

Several scholars, such as Al-Maqdesi [68] and Al-Tibi [112], interpreted the word pedal
in verse 58:13 as "Did you fear poverty?".

3Al-Mahalli [67] understood it to be addressing only the poor. Al-Khazen [62] and Al-
Baghawi [23] agreed.

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

2)

chests a need of what they were given and prefer others to them-
selves even if they were with a dire need. He who has been protected
from the stinginess of his soul, those are the prosperous.

Why did the stingy rich not pretend to have given a charity and then go
for a consultation?

Answer: Muslims habitually gave their donations at the mosque in plain
sight where the Prophet (PBUH) was in charge of distributing donations to
the poor who came for assistance. Therefore, it was not practicable for
someone to pretend to offer charity without actually doing so.

Given the easing interpretation (second interpretation in step C), what was
the wisdom of starting with the harder command?

Answer: This is a question that is not particular to this claim. It is surely to
rise with other claims as well. It is a question that has been contemplated
much in the classic literature. Many scholars saw it as the wisdom of
abrogation. Other scholars, such as Al-Bahiyy [25], saw it as the wisdom
of gradual legislation. The question of abrogation is whether the original
command was annulled. In the case at hand, verses 58:12-13, the command
was only elaborated, hence no abrogation.

Did the time wasters* resume wasting the Prophet's time after the revela-
tion of verse 58:13? If they did not then why not?

Answer: There is no authentic evidence either way. If they did not, one may
conjecture that the reason is that either they knew they were exposed and
their ploy was foiled, or because they thought that the charity requirement
was not rescinded, that it remained applicable to all who could afford it and
that includes them, that the command in verse 58:12 was not abrogated
but rather an expiation for those wary of poverty was introduced by verse
58:13. They may have seen that verse 58:13 did not apply to them as they
were rich and not wary of poverty.

Al-Isnawi [52] presents a logical argument, supported by a Prophetic nar-
ration, that provides a good reason to conclude that the ruling of verse
58:12 continued until the death of the Prophet (PBUH) and beyond that to
his Fellows (RA). No other scholar that we know of has addressed this point.

His argument starts with accepting Al-Asfahani's argument that the pur-
pose of revealing verse 58:12 was to filter out the hypocrites. Authentic
narrations have reported that the Prophet (PBUH) already knew the names
of the hypocrites and told them to his fellow, Huzayfa ibn Al-Yaman (RA).
So, the Prophet (PBUH) could have filtered out the hypocrites by not wel-
coming them to private consultation, but it was not his nature to turn away

4The scholars agreed that the circumstances of revelation of verse 58:12 were that people

took too much liberty when they sought the Prophet (PBUH) to ask him questions. Some
would take him aside, while others sat in the same room. Some even asked him trivial
questions. See Al-Khazen [62] and Al-Baydawi [31] for instance.

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

people. Besides, that would have exposed the hypocrites to the rest of the
believers and the Prophet always hoped that some of them would mend
their ways. That's why, presumably, he asked Huzayfa never to divulge
the names.

Verse 58:12 provided a subtle way to filter out the hypocrites without ex-
posing them per se. The fact that hypocrites continued to exist until
the Prophet's death and beyond (Muslim [189]) means that the ruling of
verse 58:12 had to continue so that they do not come back to wasting the
Prophet's time and by extrapolation the time of his successors.

Given the license interpretation (second interpretation in step C), for whom
was this license? Was it to the poor mentioned in verse 58:12, or the
apprehensive, mentioned in verse 58:13? If it was the former, then the
claim must have been about abrogating the beginning of verse 58:12 by its
ending. Was that the scholars' opinion?

Answer: One narration stated that the ending of verse 58:12 was revealed
later than its beginning and was a license of relief. The narration was
told by Ibn Abi-Aruba quoting Al-Sadusi and Ibn Hayyan and mentioned,
without authentication, by Ibn Kathir [163] and Al-Tabari [107]. Most
narrations, however, have explicitly named verse 58:13 as the licensing
verse, e.g., a narration by Mujahid mentioned in several books such as [bn
Kathir [163].

The time that elapsed between the charity command and the license was
said to be as little as one hour in some narrations and as much as ten days
in other narrations. They all say that Ali (RA) was the only one who gave
the charity and everyone else found that hard to do. All of these narrations
are inauthentic, it should be noted.

In particular, no one has authenticated that narration that claims that the
ending of verse 58:12 abrogated its beginning. The claim can be summarily
dismissed because the exemption of the poor is an exception (ck!) that
falls under the Elaboration validation rule and therefore is not abrogation.

Was the command in verse 58:12 a mandate or a recommendation? If it
was a recommendation then doesn't that mean it was never necessary to
comply with it? If it was a mandate then don't the words "better for you
and more purifying" mean that the alternative is still good and purifying?

Answer: Whether the command was a mandate or a recommendation is
irrelevant to the abrogation claim; if it remains in effect, then it was not
abrogated in either case. We've shown in the discussion of the claim that it
was not. The issue of mandate-versus-recommendation is of interest, how-
ever, to jurisprudence. The scholars were split on that. Al-Shawkani [96]
argued for the command being a recommendation and so did Al-Shaarawi
(92|. Al-Baydawi [31] countered that argument by the fact that those who

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

cannot afford the charity are excused from it, so this implies to him that
for those who can, it may well be a strict requirement.

Al-Maqdesi [68] concluded that the negative reaction of Muslims to the
charity imperative was "an offense which God let pass" ("ass Ul j9l3 —53")
and that verse 58:13 stated the expiation for it to be a commitment to
prayer, almsgiving, and obedience to God and His Messenger. Al-Baydawi
[31] agrees that the reaction of the poor was pardoned, but does not describe
the commitment to religious duties as an expiation.

7) Isit a valid reconciliation argument to say that the charity command served
its purpose by stopping the time wasters and thus was no longer needed?

Answer: This argument was suggested by many scholars, such as Al-
Asfahani (Al-Razi [83]) and Al-Shaarawi [92]. It is, however, unclear from
what they argued whether they saw it as a recurring contingency, i.e., if
it ever happens again the command returns so that would fall under the
Contingency validation rule. Nada [190] opined that the contingency was
recurring and, therefore, the command could not be abrogated.

8) Were there other valid reconciliation arguments offered in the literature?

Yes. For example, Al-Khodari [64] and Al-Saqqa [88] offered another argu-
ment, that verse 58:13 elaborates on the meaning of charity, that it does
not have to be material, that acts of worship and obedience are also charity.
This argument has merit because it is supported by a Prophetic narration
(Al-Bukhari [35]) that says "Every virtue is a charity." (#1 y+ |S).
We did not include more arguments in step C only because we already pre-
sented several valid arguments that are more than sufficient to make the
case against abrogation.

9) Was the command in verse 58:12 particular to consultation with the Prophet
(PBUH) only or does it extend to others?

This question is not relevant to reconciliation arguments, but it is a valid
jurisprudence question. Hasaballah [139] and Nada [190] asserted that
it applies only to the Prophet (PBUH). Other scholars argued that it may
apply, by analogy, to scholars who get inundated by juristic questions. Al-
Ghornati [47| mentions the different interpretations of the word _JlesI\
(seated lectures) in verse 58:11 and how that affects whether the command
in 58:12 applies only to the Prophet (PBUH). Whether it applies is irrele-
vant, however, to the abrogation question, because we have shown in the
discussion of the claim that the command was not annulled.

| "7 [PAGE 94] The two versions of the main narration about verse 58:12 that was
' attributed to Ali (RA) are inauthentic according to the narration encyclopedia

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

Al-Dorar Al-Saniyya [89]. Here are the two versions in their original Arabic
wording, together with their attribution information and conclusion.

First version:
oS .<ie Sid oi 35 |e sy te wise 15) Lgl Zpdl igi Gy ty cesda dol
es ay Cds $e em mal 3a cdg dl Cae 13) EnKs (abad lyo we)
"In God's book, there is a verse that no one before me put into action, and
no one after me will put into action [quoting verse 58:12]. I had a dinar and
I sold it [a dinar is a gold coin and a dirham is a silver coin worth a small
fraction of a dinar. Selling a dinar means breaking it into dirhams] so when
I consulted with the Messenger privately I gave a dirham for charity until I
ran out. Then [verse 58:12] was abrogated by the other verse [quoting verse
58:13]."
20/323 935) sh dmrtvall | eB penih tpteal | patel) geil scteead | gly
ae 1 2dorell oe dete
It is reported by Al-Qurtubi [80]. Al-Dorar Al-Saniyya [89] summarizes its
ratings as "weak."

Second version:
des Wg eile Ge ba es thes ie) sae al gay ie Je
bs : Jb cin oS lo exe oe iad J pop eae 13) \3) \ gal zpdl iii» ene sel
otis a
"In God's book, there is a verse that no one before me put into action, and no

one after me will put into action [quoting verse 58:12]. It was mandated then
abrogated."

dnta)l | Sir Hard tybressl | SypAS boll setoedl | Seal pm cy tabees ss yb
8/288 : 321 4)
dade Stovall Se Lede

It is reported by Mujahid. Al-Dorar Al-Saniyya [89] summarizes its ratings as
"disconnected".

© [PAGE 95] Al-Hakem [48] reported a different sourcing of the narration about

/ verse 58:12 attributed to Ali (RA), that no one else has although many echoed,
and rated it "authentic per the criteria of Al-Bukhari and Muslim." However,

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

no one else agreed with him. Ibn Hajar [156] rated it less than authentic.
S. Al-Zahabi [119], who reviewed Al-Hakem's narrations, and often approved
them, did not mention that narration.

Al-Hakem is one of the authenticators of hadith, not a reporter of any. He
lived later than the time hadith authentication was reported and documented
in books. The era of hadith reporting started at the beginning of the second
hijri Century when Caliph Umar ibn Abdul-Aziz, worried that narrators were
dying and narrations were being misquoted, ordered a number of scholars
to begin collecting narrations and filtering out the ones with questionable
authenticity.

Three books came out during that time, by Malik [185], Al-Darimi, and
Ibn Hanbal [160], but they were compilations only without authentication.
Authentication started in earnest when Al-Bukhari developed sensible criteria
of authentication and followed through by traveling to where narrators lived
to hear from them directly what they narrated and from whom they heard
it. The result was his famous book of compilation of authentic hadiths, Al-
Bukhari [35]. A side effect of it was the birth of the discipline of narrator

appraisal (_ptedls cl).

Seven more books of hadith compilation, authentication and reporting fol-
lowed, each with less strict authentication criteria than Al-Bukhari's to one
degree or another. With hadith now documented, reliance on verbal narrations
started to give way to quoting them from one of those books.

As these books garnered acceptance by Islamic scholars, some, such as Ibn
Hajar [155], began to write books expounding on them. They also started to
write books on the weaker narrations and explain why they were not included
in the eight books, by pointing out faults in some of the narrators or gaps in
the connectivity of the narration chain. Some also opined that there was no
fault with some narrators who were regarded as weak. Al-Hakem was perhaps
the most famous of those scholars.

When he published his book, Al-Hakem [48], he announced that he found
9000 narrations which, in his view, met the criteria of Al-Bukhari or Muslim
or both. That announcement caused a ruckus among the scholar community.
All the prominent scholars among his peers rejected his assertion and pointed
out that his criteria were too lax for proper authentication.

S. Al-Zahabi who took the time to comment on most of Al-Hakem's narra-
tions, was unequivocal in his criticism of Al-Hakem's narrations when he said
"a quarter of his book is flimsy, unrecognized narrations that are not valid
and some of that are fabricated" (Dlepoys EUS Gan (by ai Y cilaly ole):
Ibn Hajar was more charitable. He tried to explain Al-Hakem's work by say-
ing that he had no time to verify the authenticity and he died before he could
(Al-Hakem [48}).

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

The consensus of hadith scholars has been that Al-Hakem's book is not to
be considered as a reliable source of authentic hadith.

(\ [PAGE 96] For reference, here is the original Arabic text of other inauthentic

J narrations about Ali (RA) in connection with the abrogation claim of verse
58:12.

e The narration attributed to Ibn Umar (RA) where he mentions blessings that
Ali (RA) had that he would have loved to have, and one of them is the event of
58:12-13 (Al-Thaalabi [110]):

anys pelle oe od) Col IS gee Bly Jol J BW ed OS spe oy! SB
«Ssrnl aly «a Ap 4) J) ojllacl y (dobla
e The narration attributed to Ibn Abbas (Ra) that says that only Ali (RA) offered

charity of a dinar then the license (presumably of verse 58:13) was revealed
(Ibn Adel [143}):

abel! Ge Ie ail - pee alll 5) 7 hE ctl yf cllaey «IS, 'er ot oF Sy
Las N els i Gly Grete Vso} oly pl Bree Ge
e A similar statement about Ali (RA) in two narrations, this time attributed to
Mujahid (Al-Tabari [107]):
WW JB ce ybSI srry ee W : Jb cmle ri LSB ope cy teres ie
(555 od WA i 3 alee ge creed ol ol ot Leer by WE UB eed
cole YY ele pb hSiee Gam play ale abil gle eal dle Ge Ig SB Bis ASigd
US 5 basi Spl pd cy Sad luo pb case alll oe) Sb al y
and
eh ctl oF he oe det ge abel gh LE 2S Bypenall eel Le on geet tlle
BAS AS IGSS L655 Syd AAS 250 EEG ISLET Soll UT Lg o doles Ge cee
Ab cal op ge Y) arly pli lies Gam play ale all dhe cell debe oe bg : JB
Aas HN Ssh pb cy That Bie Ilys pb cae alll oo)

\ [PAGE 96] The following are two narrations by Ibn Abbas (RA) about verse
/ 58:12 that do not involve the story of Ali (RA). The narrations were mentioned
by Al-Tabari [107], but they were not authenticated in the major narration
books.

The first narration states that Muslims followed the directive of 58:12 and
offered charity ahead of private consultation with the Prophet (PBUH), and then
that was abrogated (using the word naskh) by almsgiving:

\

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

al BB ol)... BAS SIS boy Gg Ia ae st V3) AgeaT call Udi Laps c ple
sda feo als oJ5 LB Laks (Ade Senl SX on Ryne Opole ole :dB 4 —_ tye
The second narration states that requiring charity ahead of private con-
sultation with the Prophet (PBUH) was to ease the burden on him (Muslims
crowded him with questions, some trivial, and occupied his time), but Mus-
lims stopped consulting with him as a result, so verse 58:13 was revealed where

God broadened the license for them. This narration does not include the word
naskh (abrogation):

| gcd 14),8 cphe cpl Ge CEE oe cgler 8 JB « qhte gS :du 'ile te
ra) ade aUl de alll Sony oe fl! \y 3S Sere! ol Ady Fi fee S\35s5 uy te fg
Dhl 6 aS y ol oe AS re US JB LB aes Ge at ol alll ab lb cae Nyt om
ly epee all alas ISBN Lely BL OSE ASE A Coley Ipbeds 91 5G Le ae alll Jpls

A more detailed discussion of the circumstances that surrounded the rev-
elation of verses 58:12-13 is included in side note 16.

[PAGE 114] The interpretation of the command in verses 73:1-4 as imposing
a requirement on anyone has also been debated (Al-Ghornati [47]). There is
a spectrum of interpretations in terms of how mandatory the imperative tense

in verse 73:2 is (je os - Arise in the night), as some recommendations in the

Quran are stated in imperative tense as well (referred to in Arabic as GO.)
which is a lighter degree of duty - (25)l).

In addition, Al-Ghornati [47] debates in detail what duration and frequency
of the night prayers are implied by the verses. There is also a spectrum of
interpretations about that.

However, since we are only addressing the abrogation question here, these
interpretations are not relevant. The question here is whether the command
in 73:1-4, whatever it entails, has been annulled by verse 73:20.

) ©) [PacE 132] The full text of the narration that is used to support the claims
= of abrogation by the sword verse quotes the Prophet (PBUH) saying:

CS Sail ha call le WS Shy i MSY Sides & oti pal of Syl

Aes

Dl Je Plony PEy SY maljaly mhilag ge lpeia® ANS Myles 138 BSG) \95 bag

"T was ordered to fight people until they bear witness that there
is no god but God and that Muhammad is the Messenger of God,

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

and establish prayers and provide almsgiving. If they do that, they
have shielded their blood and money from me except with the right
of Islam, and their accountability is with God."

The narration was authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35] who also authenticated
other versions of it. Muslim [189] also authenticated versions of this narration,
and so did Abu-Dawoud [3], among others.

Similar to the discussion of verse 9:5 (the sword verse), the key issue is
whether the object of fighting is limited to a certain group rather than being
everyone, everywhere. In the case of the sword verse, we argued that it is lim-
ited to those who violated their treaties with the Prophet (PBUH) as described
in verse 9:1 and the subsequent verses. In the case of this narration, the key
is the use of the word 'people':

"I was ordered to fight people} until... (... — el) 436i al Jil)

Could this word refer to a special group or does it always designate everyone,
everywhere? In English, limited scopes of 'people' are sometimes employed,
e.g., in "people leave their countries for a better life". There is Quranic evi-
dence that the Arabic word is also used to mean a special group. The following
verse, which addresses a different subject, uses the word twice to mean special
(and different) groups:

LW: alae JT SESE 2a) ae 35 wlll 5 etl] 2 SG Gall p

[3:173] Those to whom people said, "Indeed, people) have gathered against
you so fear them"

It is obvious that the two groups, each referred to as 'people', are different
since one group is warning Muslims against the other group. Ibn Ashur [153],
who emphasizes linguistic aspects in his exegesis, comments on this part of
the verse and mentions that 'people' can even be used to refer to one person.

Therefore, the word 'people' in the narration may be referring to a group
of people rather than everyone, everywhere. The books that authenticated
the narration did not provide its context to further pinpoint the meaning.
However, several Quranic verses about tolerance and coexistence go against
interpreting 'people' in the narration to mean everyone, everywhere. For ex-
ample,

[08 aS] SaaS cS 525 Sold ald 55 228s ye SAI 85

[18:29] And say, "The truth is from your Lord, so whoever wills -
let him believe; and whoever wills - let him disbelieve."...

Someone in the category "whoever wills - let him disbelieve" would certainly not

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

be expected to "bear witness that there is no god but God and that Muham-
mad is the Messenger of God, and establish prayers and provide almsgiving"
as the narration prescribes.

Indeed, as we mentioned on page 131, the four Caliphs (RA) who came after
the Prophet (PBUH) never forced non-Muslims in the lands they conquered to
enter Islam, so those people practiced their religions openly. It is obvious
that the Caliphs would not have violated this Prophetic narration had it been
meant to coerce everyone into Islam.

) [PAGE 133] Al-Suyuti [100] dismissed all abrogation claims by the sword verse
in one paragraph. He reasoned that this is a case of postponement of the
fighting order rather than abrogation, and that the ruling moves between
fighting and not fighting at different times contingent upon what necessitates

that ruling (¢SoI JUS past dbl cle oy 3 allel Coe 555 pl JS).

It is not clear whether he elaborated this argument further in his other
manuscript dedicated to abrogation that was lost and never found (see side
note 7). He does mention other opinions about abrogation by the sword verse
in the claims that he approved (Al-Suyuti [100}).

[PAGE 160] The claimants that "the food of those who were given the Scripture

"Tis lawful for you" in verse 5:5 abrogated the prohibition of certain foods in

other verses specifically identified the object of abrogation as the prohibition
of animals that were slaughtered without mentioning God's name. It is notable
that the prohibition of pork meat, which is explicitly included in some of the
verses, was not included by those claimants as part of what was abrogated.

In discussing this claim in §7.1, we did not address pork meat either because
our only goal was to refute the actual abrogation claim made by the scholars.
However, because pork meat was mentioned in the same list as meats that
were subject to the abrogation claim, it is prudent to clarify how pork meat
figures in this context.

The issue is that while Judaism prohibits pork, most Christian denom-
inations allow it. Therefore, an apparent conflict would be that "the food
of those who were given the Scripture" that was allowed by verse 5:5 would
include pork, thus conflicting with the prohibition of pork in the other verses.

However, this conflict can be resolved. Some people affiliated with Chris-
tianity or Judaism do not follow religious rules. If those people eat a certain
food that is forbidden by their religion, the mere fact that they eat it does not
make it allowed for Muslims, notwithstanding the allowance of verse 5:5. So,
what exactly is the criterion for invoking that allowance?

The key is the wording "those who were given the Scripture" in verse 5:5.

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

When those who came after the Scripture was given deviate from the foods
allowed by that Scripture, they lose the basis for allowing their foods. For
Christians, that Scripture is the Bible. Is pork meat among the foods allowed
by the Bible?

The Old Testament of the Bible unambiguously prohibits pork meat. What
Jesus (PBUH) himself conveyed during his life does not eliminate that prohibi-
tion. Indeed, Christians recognize that Jesus (PBUH) did not eat pork. Some
Christian denominations, such as the 7th Day Adventist Church which bases
its fundamental beliefs on "Bible Only", prohibit pork meat.

The logical conclusion is that the allowance for Muslims in verse 5:5 does
not include pork meat. Therefore, it does not conflict with the other verses in
the Quran that prohibit it.

Christians use other arguments, including statements made by key Chris-
tian figures after the departure of Jesus (PBUH) that they consider part of chris-
tianity, to argue that pork meat is allowed for them. This does not affect our
argument here. We are only concerned with what is allowed for Muslims ac-
cording to verse 5:5 in the Quran. If later generations of Christians eat pork,
this does not change what those who received the original Bible practiced,
which is the only relevant issue for the ruling in verse 5:5.

[. [PAGE 183] There is another way to refute the claim against verse 2:221,

' which forbids Muslims from marrying polytheists. The verse was said to have
been abrogated by verse 5:5 which allows Muslim men to marry chaste women
from among the people of the Scripture (Christians and Jews).

The perceived conflict comes from the notion that people of the Scripture
would be considered polytheist. But people of the Scripture are not polytheist.
The distinction between the two communities is repeated many times in the
Quran. For instance, verse 98:1 explicitly separates the two communities.
Exegete Al-Qurtubi [80] supports this reconciliation argument.

In addition, a narration attributed to Ibn Abbas (RA) calls verse 5:5 an ex-
ception from verse 2:221 and does not even mention the word naskh (Ibn
Sallam [171]). The same book quotes a supporting opinion of Al-Awzaei and
later a narration attributed to Ibn Jubair that specifically states that marrying
Jewish and Christian women is allowed for Muslims, and defines polytheists
to be worshipers of idols.

While Ibn Sallam [171] mentioned narrations attributed to Umar (RA) and
his son Abdullah (RA) that they disliked and discouraged interfaith marriage,
he also mentioned a number of fellows of the Prophet (PBUH) who married
Christians and Jews, including Uthman (ra), the third Caliph in Islam.

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

(. [PAGE 183] There is a point that makes the claim of abrogation of verse

/ 2:229 particularly tenuous. The verse already states the same principle that
the abrogating verse 4:20 states; the husband should not take back what he has
given to the wife. Thus verse 4:20 is not bringing a new rule, but reiterating
the same rule of verse 2:229 with different wording.

Therefore, when verse 2:229 goes on to make an exception (in the case
where the wife withdraws from the marriage - cal khul-a),

[564 3a] € ... if BS Sb yensl li, esc si rN j£%G~}

[2:229] ... And it is not lawful for you (men) to take anything of
what you have given to them (your wives) except! ...

it is explicitly a case of exception from a general rule, not an abrogation, per
the highlighted word. Repeating the general rule in verse 4:20 does not alter
the fact that this is a case of exception, not abrogation.

? [PAGE 204] In Arabic, the initial part of the 2:106 passage which we translated
to "Whatever verse We may abrogate" uses the conditional construct 'ma ...min'
(44 ... 4). This construct has an 'exhaustive' semantic (Gl!) which was
captured by our choice of the word 'Whatever' in the translation. It means
that the conditional part applies to any abrogated verse, with no exceptions.
This meaning is universally acknowledged as what the passage signifies.

Individually, the two Arabic words in the construct (ma - 4 and min - .)
can have other meanings, but the parsing of the full construct pins it down
to the exhaustive conditional semantic as we translated it. Indeed, the same
construct is used repeatedly in the Quran with the same semantics.

We tallied the use of the conditional ma (l-) in the Quran and found 10
other instances of it. These instances are in verses 2:110, 2:197, 2:215, 2:272,
2:273, 3:92, 3:115, 4:127, 8:60, and 35:2. In all 10 instances, the conditional
ma comes with the same preposition min (.) with which it comes in 2:106.
In all 10 cases, the meaning is unambiguously "whatever .. may .." like the
standard translation of 2:106.

) [PAGE 209] Another narration about the circumstance of revelation of the
abrogation verse 2:106 is also inauthentic. It was attributed to Ibn Abbas (Ra)
and purported that the "cause to be forgotten" part of 2:106 was in response
to certain Quranic verses being forgotten overnight (Al-Jabri [54]).

") [PAGE 225] How Muslims treat previous scripture is captured in a Prophetic

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

narration authenticated by Al-Albani [10]:

OWS OB caleny aed WL LT cll sy Ce rpdSS Vy pasta Ww CLS fal Stae L"
"dpb aal os MeL ole ols (Ag dS o i>

"Do not believe or disbelieve what People of the Book relate to you [from

scripture], and say we believe in God and His books and His messengers. This

way, if it is false, you didn't believe it, and if it is true, you didn't disbelieve
it."

The narration tells us to be neutral towards the current versions of previous
scripture. Does 'neutral' imply that it is abrogated? The narration makes it
clear that there is no longer a mandate to follow previous scripture, which is
precisely the premise of abrogation.

There is another point that we will address here for completeness. Have the
unaltered parts of the original scripture, that survived in the altered version,
been abrogated? The question is theoretical in nature since we don't know
for sure which parts these are. Nonetheless, it is a relevant question for this
discussion.

Scholars believe that even original parts of previous scripture are subject
to abrogation. Abu-Elela [4] argues that Judaism and Christianity in their
original form were meant to be abrogated because those religions were intended
for specific historical eras only. Ibrahim [178] refers specifically to the authentic
version of previous religions as an object of abrogation when he talks about
"legislation from those before us if its conveyance to us was proved without
doubt, and was not abrogated by our legislation" (43 214 Y Us3 LJ! ale oI!
Lisye arn aly). Al-Zarkashi [125] talks about "what God abr ogated from the
Torah by the Quran and the Bible."

Notwithstanding the difference of opinions, the following Quranic passage
leaves no ambiguity about what to follow,

45 GUEST ge 0855 GS LS) KS 63 Siar By cust Bay sh; »
HB oe Bale Ue eaigal eG Gi Ile es ed ale
[4A : SUN] & ... ELgieg 4E% ip8 paks as
[5:48] And We have revealed to you, [O Muhammad], the Book in
truth, confirming that which preceded it of the Scripture and dominant
over it. So judge between them by what God has revealed and do not

follow their inclinations away from what has come to you of the truth.
To each of you We prescribed a legislation and a methodology ...

The Quran is dominant over previous scripture, so for any ruling that is dif-

ferent, the Quranic ruling abrogates the previous ruling. The passage further
asserts that there are indeed differences between one scripture and another as

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

it says that each nation has its own 'legislation and methodology'. Notwith-
standing such differences, the Quran confirms the legitimacy and the core
message of prior scripture.

)(\ [PAGE 225] The division of the Quran into 30 parts with sub-parts, as it is
/ currently organized in every copy of the Quranic script, happened in stages.

There are several accounts of early attempts to divide the Quran into parts,
most notably seven parts, and later attempts to divide it evenly based on the
exact number of letters. The final division we have today took shape some
time in the 2nd hijri century. What is certain is that the Prophet (PBUH) did
not divide the Quran nor suggest that it may be divided in any way other
than into chapters and verses.

[PAGE 238] Al-Albani [10], a modern hadith scholar who lived in the 20th

- century, authenticated this narration that was not considered authentic before.
The narration reports an incident where the Prophet (PBUH) forgot one of the
verses as he was reciting the Quran during a prayer and was reminded about
it after the prayer. The Arabic text is

tel sal isl SB he Lele ct fuel Loy ale alll bs el ol ayl © ax! ol oF
Lgemeil bp rE Pysees pl ces lS a) 2 ol Sus

It is a case of simple forgetfulness, and Al-Albani comments that it is evidence
that one may remind the leader of a prayer if he forgets something as he recites

the Quran (ell le cel).

A related narration authenticated by Ibn Hibban [161] similarly reports
a forgetfulness incident after which a man inquired if that skipped verse had
been abrogated. The Prophet (PBUH) said that the man should have reminded
him of it and that it was not abrogated. The Arabic text is

AT gb Wed SG oI ley ade WW) Le Ul Spey Spe 2S ay op penal ge
ced GT Lb Ju el dsest Agi] Je ET eS 5 8 call Gye & ety ua
fd oS LG :JB

Again, it is a case of simple forgetfulness that was corrected.

") [PAGE 243] There are three versions of the narration by Ibn Abi-Najeeh about

— the separation of recitation of a Quranic verse from its ruling, interpreting the
opening part of verse 2:106 "Whatever verse We may abrogate" to mean 'We fix

its script and substitute its ruling' (Gace fag ig Ages E28). The interpretation
is attributed to the fellows of Ibn Masoud. For reference, we include the full

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

Arabic text that Al-Tabari [107] provided when he reported the narration,
together with English commentary about key points.

The first version of the narration has Ibn Abi-Najeeh quoting the fellows
of Ibn Masoud directly. It is the version that Zeid [206] considers reliable:

wbesl oF tees gl ol oF (ene Y :du creole yl ls : dB 6a eF cp deme ite
UgeSe Susy he Gut UN oe ae Le Ig gil oper op! alll Le

The person who narrated from Ibn Abi-Najeeh in this version is called Issa,
whom Zeid [206] identifies as Issa Al-Jurashi (_ 3533) oper cy ene). According
to Ibn Hajar [159], Al-Jurashi was a Fatalist like Ibn Abi-Najech.

The second and third versions are narrated by Ibn Abi-Najeeh through Mu-
jahid who in turn quotes the fellows of Ibn Masoud. According to Ibn Hibban,
everyone who quoted Mujahid in matters of exegesis took those quotes from
the writings of Al-Qasim Ibn Abi-Bazza, the scholar who did hear Mujahid di-
rectly (Ibn Hajar [159]). Therefore, many scholars dismissed narrations where
Ibn Abi-Najeeh quotes Mujahid directly, and Zeid [206] dismissed the second
and third versions of this narration because of it. Here is the second version:

+ gts oy! cl ew! oe & Se clgo Se Sais clgbs Gis al oy

In this version, Shibl is the one who quotes Ibn Abi-Najeeh and is identified

by Zeid [206] as Shibl Ibn Abbad Al-Makki (_Scoll abe cy e). He is also
a Fatalist according to Abu-Dawoud (Ibn Hajar [159]).

The third and final version is unique in that its wording does not include

'and substitute its ruling' (yase ines) which is the basis for the separation
of recitation and ruling:

Clabes oF (ees al atl oF OS on SY ade SB Bland SB cet! te
Ages C8 AI oe Qe Lb rages ol Glawel 6

This is how Al-Tabari [107] reported the narration; it only says 'We fix its
script' (gk £8) without the 'and substitute its ruling' (<> sae) part
which was added after Al-Tabari wrote his book (Afana [7]). The added part
is put between parentheses in some modern editions of Al-Tabari's book to
indicate that it was not in the original manuscript. It should be noted that
'We fix its script' (kbs C3) by itself is a legitimate meaning for the word
naskh since naskh also has the linguistic meaning 'copy'.

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

) QD [Pace 254] There are narrations of questionable authenticity that talk about
~ Quranic verses that were abrogated or made to be forgotten and were not

included in the Quranic script. An example of these narrations was reported in
Ibn Taymia [172], but not in the major narration books. It describes a number
of people who were unable to recite one of the Quranic chapters so they went
to the prophet (PBUH) to inquire and he said "it was abrogated yesterday",

cLgele 52d oli Lalas FT pliyclgle Jum old Ul Lala pli Bye ame IS Sey Sl
Ceatd tegen SUB pleny dole AU cle al Dye Igld renreld elle jab ebb bela, 357 pbb,
ete be ca eb mas oe a Jl, areas 14s 3 > Sa ie ee
In addition to the questionable authenticity of these narrations, they do not
address verses in the Quranic script as the Prophet (PBUH) left it to us, which is

the exclusive focus of this book. We mention these narrations for completeness
without in-depth analysis since they are not relevant to the subject at hand.

/| [PAGE 256] We discussed a number of issues with the "doomed and dooming"

. (2h, éSis) story in §10.4.1. In this side note, we focus on the authenticity

question of the different versions of the story in detail.

Most versions of the story were reported as follows. Al-Solamy, a fellow of
Ali (RA), narrated that Ali once passed by a storyteller. He asked him, "have
you learned what is abrogating versus what is abrogated?" The man answered,
"no." Ali said, "you are doomed and are dooming." Many authors who cited
that story rarely mentioned anything about its authentication. We searched
the literature for all narrations of that story that include a chain of narrators.

Several hadith scholars had reservations about two narrators who appear in
the chains of most versions of the narrations of this story, Sufyan ibn Masoud
ibn Masrooq Al-Thawri and Abu-Hassin Uthman ibn Aasem. For example,
Ibn Hajar [157], a highly regarded evaluator of narrator trustworthiness, found
both to have imposed. An example of imposition (_,.JJ!) is when a narrator
says he heard from someone when he did not. Al-Suyuti [103] described Al-
Thawri's imposition saying, "he was famous for it".

Here are the different versions of the story that we found in the literature,
and the detailed authentication analysis of them. We present each version in
English followed by the Arabic original. Four main versions stand out: (1)
the version that was belatedly authenticated by Al-Albani without verifying
all the narrators in the chain, (2) an almost identical version but with the
full narration chain, (3) a version that attributes the story to Ibn Abbas (RA)
rather than Ali (RA), and (4) a version that describes the doomed person as

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

a judge rather than a storyteller. Here are the details.

(1) Abu-Khaythama [5] reported that Abu Abdul-Rahman Al-Johany nar-
rated that Ali passed by a storyteller and he said to him: Do you know the
abrogating versus the abrogated? He said: No. He said: You are doomed and
are dooming.

Sourcing validation: We found this short sourcing, ending with Al-Johany,
in the Narration Encyclopedia (Al-Dorar Al-Saniyya [89]) but we found a more
expanded sourcing in the reporting book as follows: Abu-Khaythama from Wa-
keea from Sufyan, without his last name, from Abu-Hassin from Abu Abdul-
Rahman, without his last name. The book's verifier, Al-Albani, wrote in the
footnotes identifying the narrator as Al-Solamy, not Al-Johany, and rated him
trustworthy. He also rated Abu-Hassin trustworthy and rated the narration
"authentic according to the criteria of the two elders". He did not rate Sufyan
nor identify him as Al-Thawri.

The verifier of Ibn Sallam [171] agreed that the narrator was Al-Solamy
but raised doubts about its authenticity, as will be detailed in narration (2)
below.

Summary | Sourcing chain was not rated by the reporter but belatedly

rated authentic by the reviewer of his book without analysis of the full narra-
tion chain.

The Arabic original:

ESke JB AY JG Se pniall Go Get Cal: SL Foley 4 AL! ale Cle S|
Sal,

ri dowiva)| Ai a lel 1 Leos | sl 1 dowel | seal. cel 'hess yy) 59h)
cet by le mone colin} rSteeall pS Eee | 130 293

ail corny aed Oy2 Garsl be col dl pee peed 3 tell We Goley rel atone
ceed ly cob pet Le cael ge Bly pdb onl Rb J Le aged Y gold
AS gb debe epl SS cole Cae oy Le ge Gert te Ul ol ed WY) J
be de are BIW 4S Gir Sy ger cal ge Olebe oF AS pe odie ple
cee Uy cab AB CSphe ce cable cy alll Le ay all ne UI Bey pent
Lyadd ead Aa as] ase Sy Ce ener oy late ail

(2) Hanbal narrated from Abu Abdul-Rahman Al-Solamy that he said: Ali
stopped by a man telling stories. He said to him: Do you know the abrogating

5"The two elders" is a term that refers to the foremost scholars of narration authentica-
tion, Al-Bukhari and Muslim

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

versus the abrogated? He said: No. Ali said: You are doomed and are
dooming.

Sourcing validation: Reported by Ibn Mufieh [169] who rated its sourcing
authentic. The sourcing chain he listed had only two names: Hanbal and
Al-Solamy. We found a more expanded sourcing chain in the footnotes of
Ibn Sallam [171] as follows: Ibn Sallam from Abdul-Rahman ibn Mahdi from
Sufyan Al-Thawri from Abu-Hassin from Al-Solamy. The verifier of his book,
Muhammad ibn Saleh Al-Mudayfer, wrote that both Al-Thawri and Abu-
Hassin may have imposed, which is what Ibn Hajar [157] said. Al-Suyuti [103]
went further and wrote that Al-Thawri was known for imposition.

Summary | The sourcing chain is truncated to two names but still was

rated authentic by the reporter. Several scholars identified the full sourcing
chain and pointed out two problematic narrators in it.

The Arabic original:

fel Cede Sas Jats 505 Joy ol Ye eel SB ell geod Le al ye Ger Gy
voles ple cpl yey ESdaly EK BY du Se pmsl

Jos gl gore clel Sly decd) Oli Fertil) ee domo dal geod
CE SM ot cee) LE ge te Lee PDL Gp! LOL 3 Ltny LY pda) GUS ie
Oh pipe) colle oy dere OLS Gree Sly cell Ge mem cal ye yl ob
oF Boel Sy eles Cad GB Lage pee gil all Le gay Lids bay Gavam Uly ble
: : Ag pgs tcp bell gles! oe Oly

(3) Ibn Abbas (RA) passed by a storyteller. He kicked him with his leg and
said: Are you aware what is abrogating and what is abrogated? He answered:
What is abrogating and what is abrogated? He said: So, you are not aware
what is abrogating and what is abrogated? He said: No. He said: You are
doomed and are dooming.

Sourcing validation: Al-Haythami [50] wrote that it was reported by Al-
Tabarani [106] who commented: In it (the narration chain), there is an Abu-
Yaala Rashed, servant of Banu Aamer, and I have not seen anyone who men-
tioned him [in appraisal]. The Narrations Encyclopedia (Al-Dorar Al-Saniyya
(89]) mentions that the narrator was Al-Dahhak. We found confirmation of
that in the footnotes of Ibn Sallam [171] from him from Muhammad ibn
Rabeeaa Al-Ruasi from Salama ibn Nabit Al-Ashjaei from Al-Dahhak from
Ibn Abbas. The verifier of his book commented that Al-Dahhak's narrations
were frequently open-ended, i.e., have a gap in the narration chain.

That was confirmed by other scholars. Al-Jabri [54] comments on this
story, making the following points: Al-Dahhak Ibn Muzahim Al-Helaly, who

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

told of this story about Ibn Abbas, is reported to have never met Ibn Abbas,
and is viewed by others as untrustworthy in all the narrations that he reported.

Al-Jabri added that it was Ibn Jubair who said that Al-Dahhak never met
Ibn Abbas, and Ibn Hibban is the one who dismissed Al-Dahhak's reliability
wholesale. In the footnotes of Al-Suyuti [105], the book's verifier, Muhammad
Al-Sabbagh, confirmed that Al-Dahhak never met Ibn Abbas and that Ibn
Hibban advised scrutiny of all narrations by Al-Dahhak.

Likewise did Afana [7]. He wrote that the story was narrated by Al-Dahhak
ibn Muzahim Al-Helaly, who died in the hijri year 105, who attributed it to
Ibn Abbas but there is one problem: He never met the man. He added that
Ibn Jubair said that Al-Dahhak "never met Ibn Abbas, so how can his nar-
rating be accepted?" He continued saying that Ibn Hibban said, "Everything
narrated from Al-Dahhak needs to be scrutinized."

Summary | Sourcing chain has a gap.

Note: In this narration, the person who encountered the storyteller is
Ibn Abbas (Ra), not Ali (RA), but he said literally the same words to the story-
teller.

The Arabic original:

SE Ce pncally Aull Leg SE Se pnrally Aull Le Sys JUS abe y aS Gols be dy! oa
ES daly ESde SEY SB Ee pntally Zealdl be coi Lad

gh ed 2 Siby SUF iba oly) 2(1/154) ly) paces ob ccategll JB steed Gain
053 oe yl oly ple ce Sy 451) dy
OF AS pe cyl Able b US ASB Le Legy SLevall Cools ot Atoll depegell Subs

Sly 2S oF Seal gh CLS

(4) Al-Bayhaqi [32] reported that Abul-Hasan Ali Al-Khusrawjerdy narrated
to him from Abu-Ahmad Al-Ghatrify from Abu-Khalifa from Muslim ibn
Ibrahim from Shuaba from Abu-Hassin from Abu Abdul-Rahman Al-Solamy
that Ali came to a judge and said to him: Do you know the abrogating versus
the abrogated? He said: No. He said: You are doomed and are dooming.

In another book of his, Al-Bayhaqi [33] reports the story as told by another
sourcing chain of narrators: Abu-Abdullah Al-Hafez from Muhammad ibn
Balaweh from Muhammad ibn Ghaleb from Amr ibn Marzooq from Abu-
Umar Al-Hawdhi, quoting him, that they said that Shuaba narrated to them
from Abu-Hassin from Abu Abdul-Rahman.

Sourcing validation: No authentication was mentioned.

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

Note: The text mentions a judge, not a storyteller. This is significant
because the difference in Arabic between _ 4 (storyteller) and _ a (judge) is
a dot. It is not possible to confuse these two words by hearing since the two
letters (2 (Ss) and .» (Dh) are phonetically distinct. The dot changes the
pronunciation completely. That suggests that this version of the story was
read from a written document, rather than conveyed orally as narrations have
traditionally been transmitted. The second version confirms the job of the
man addressed by Ali to be a judge, not a storyteller, and the verifier of the
book, Dr. Muhammad Dhiyaa Al-Rahman Al-Aazhami confirmed that Abu
Abdul-Rahman is Al-Solamy, and wrote that he was a fellow of Ali (RA).

Summary | No authentication was given.

The Arabic original:
isl ele hth a ws Al 2 ties inked Rad abl we 23 oi Be ash § 1
Fees 4
ES : IBY ee ap eet A Sia gt BED ps
: Si
AB Ee mds Gelb ye Sed oT ods ol be :dbk
The other version:

Ges "si

A oe eles aT ANG gh SEEN Gy Ae 2 sia ln ce 9)

ite) Bis JB at le igh is NG yal billy Lops 22 oly iis
Septal ico ae C33 : la aii Sa we 3 ae ay leo) le 5) : Soi oreo

o- 5 4

eae 2 ON cs te Js Y MG

78 bbe of Geel al co W dle US$ fet Oo aged antl roel pelo
Jee cl oh Rebbe ob cake Geol elas dare 23 LSI pin JB ei Y
: _ as all ey de Coke cola! pm super

In addition to these 4 versions of the narration, other versions in the lit-
erature are similarly worded and sourced, and all of them have not been au-
thenticated.

) [. [PAGE 271] Two authenticated versions of the Prophetic narration in question

contain the key words that we quoted. The first version appears in Ibn Hanbal

APPENDIX A.1. SIDE NOTES

[160], was authenticated by Al-Albani (Al-Dorar Al-Saniyya [89]), and contains
the Prophetic quote "the Quran did not descend from Heaven with parts of it
belying each other, but rather confirming each other",

ee ol La caslgal ya Sb ve Sgt Pull dey owel os Bhs Ils sly ui eld
lps (Saad ipdlrel ores (Ca clggb Ve bass COL oy i \sf53 3) (Bae ides (tind
Fo? pie a abs fa he lpg lal } weet Ages es 43 ary all

EE era

The second version was authenticated by Ibn Majah [166] and contains the
Prophetic quote reprimanding those who "shoot down parts of the Quran with
other parts",

we 2

gj nts Eloy SGD tpl Se td Sig 3 a BN AS age
Kis 2 Sle

[PAGE 302] The Prophetic narration, authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35], about
'helping a fellow Muslim prevail addresses the case where injustice is being done
to him or by him. In the case of injustice done by him, the narration asserts
that helping him prevail would be by stopping him from doing that injustice,

GIS 13) CAT gles Gis tay Sait cab Jib 15 de Magllas $i ue Bust al
(EDLs oy ail rcesh SI) a4 a5 BUS Gus tolls cy 23625 j)- SASS JU Cr eil AS lb

The principle of being on the side of a fellow Muslim by not being on the side
of an error he made is what we cited the narration for.

APPENDIX A.2. List OF ABROGATION CLAIMS

A.2 List of Abrogation Claims

This is a complete list of all abrogation claims that were cited in the literature
we studied. We put them in a table with 4 columns; 'Claimed Abrogated',
'Claimed Abrogating', 'For', and 'Against'.

The For/Against columns show counts of authors and scholars who have
analyzed the claim and either approved or refuted it. In few cases, certain
scholars were reported in different books to be for and against the same claim,
so they were counted in both columns. Numbers with a plus sign next to them
indicate that one or more of the counted scholars or authors stated that the
majority has judged the claim as he did. Many of the claims were not even
addressed by most scholars, so the number of scholars against those claims
could be considerably higher than indicated.

For each claim, we include the page number where the claim is addressed
in this book. A page number inside a box such as [91] points to a detailed
discussion of the claim. An underlined page number such as 182 points to
a brief discussion. For the rest of the claims, the page number points to
a discussion of a general category or a summary listing that does not elaborate
individual claims.

[Claimed Abrogated] [Claimed Abrogating] [For] [Against]

2:3 (p. 186) 9:60 6 7
2:62 (p. [167)) 3:85 5 15
2:81 (p. [164)) 4:48 1 124
2:83 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 6 9
2:104 (p. 193) Not mentioned 1 3
2:109 (p. 134) 9:29 6 11+
2:109 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 9 4
2:115 (p. (1371) 2:144 15 Q14
2:115 (p. 139) 2:150 1 1
2:139 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 2 6
2:158 (p. 190) 2:130 1 5
2:159 (p. 182) 2:160 3 oy
2:173 (p. [159)) 5:5 2 5
2:173 (p. 159) Sunna 2 5
2:178 (p. (170) 17:33 1 2
2:178 (p. (170) 5:45 15 33
2:180 (p. (121) 4:11-12 454 47
2:180 (p. 125) Prophetic Narration 1 10
2:183 (p. [140)) 2:187 14+ 21
2:184 (p. [70) 2:185 21 42

APPENDIX A.2. List OF ABROGATION CLAIMS

[Claimed Abrogated] [Claimed Abrogating] [For] [Against]

2:187 (p. 182) 2:222 1 Q+
2:190 (p. 179) 2:191 I 2
2:190 (p. [178)) 2:194 1 3
2:190 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 7 23+
2:191 (p. 193) 2:191 1 ;
2:191 (p. 133) 2:193 8 15
2:191 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 8 18
2:192 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 2 1
2:194 (p. 133) 17:33 2 104
2:196 (p. 193) 2:196 4
2:215 (p. 186) 9:60 5 19
2:216 (p. 182) 2:286 1 ces
2:216 (p. 182) 9:122 1 a+
2:217 (p. 135) 9:36 9+ QI
2:217 (p. 135) 'Sword Verse' 11 15
2:219 (p. 68) 5:90 19 26
2:219 (p. 186) 9:60 2 oe
2:219 (p. 189) 9:103 7 18
2:221 (p. 183) 5:5 15 314
2:222 (p. 453) Sunna 1 3
2:228 (p. 190) 2:229-230 8 2
2:228 (p. 182) 33:49 11 cee
2:228 (p. 182) 65:4 11 iid:
2:229 (p. 193) 2:229 3 ae
2:229 (p. 190) 4:4 3 114
2:229 (p. 183) 4:20 3 114
2:229 (p. 190) 65:1 2 2
2:229 (p. 193) Narration 1 -
2:233 (p. 193) 2:233 3 10+
2:235 (p. 193) 2:235 1 do
2:236 (p. 182) 2:237 13 11
2:240 (p. (51) 2:234 91+ 30
2:240 (p. 53) 4:12 1 1
2:240 (p. 51) 65:4 Q+ ay
2:256 (p. 133) 9:29 1 1
2:256 (p. 133) 9:73 4 4t
2:256 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 7 23
2:282 (p. 193) 2:282 8 yee
2:282 (p. 182) 2:283 11 18
2:284 (p. [85)) 2:286 23+ 46
2:284 (p. 85) Prophetic Narration 1 1
2:286 (p. 190) 2:185 1 3
3:20 (p. 190) 16:125 1 24

APPENDIX A.2. List OF ABROGATION CLAIMS

[Claimed Abrogated] [Claimed Abrogating] [For] [Against]

3:20 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 4 5
3:28 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 4 6
3:41 (p. 184) Sunna 3 2+
3:86-88 (p. 183) 2:160 2 B+
3:86-88 (p. 183) 3:89 2 5
3:97 (p. 193) 3:97 2 4
3:102 (p. [42)) 64:16 16 244+
3:111 (p. 184) 9:29 2 10
3:145 (p. 184) 17:18 3 y
3:159 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 2 -
3:186 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 1 6
4:2 (p. 190) 2:220 ' 7
4:3 (p. 190) 4:129 1 2
4:6 (p. 190) 4:10 6 21
4:6 (p. 190) 4:29 6 21
4:7 (p. 182) 4:11 i 5
4:8 (p. 190) 4:11 13 50
4:9 (p. 192) 2:182 3 10
4:10 (p. 190) 2:220 a 7
4:10 (p. 190) 4:6 6 21
4:11-12 (p. 453) Sunna 3 94:
4:15-16 (p. 75) 24:2 QL+ 24
4:17 (p. 182) 4:18 i 5
4:18 (p. [164)) 4:48 7 Q+
4:19 (p. 193) 4:19 2 5
4:19 (p. 453) Sunna 1 1+
4:22 (p. 193) 4:22 2 5
4:23 (p. 193) 4:23 2 5
4:24 (p. 182) 2:228 17 194
4:24 (p. 182) 23:5-7 1 :
4:24 (p. 190) 65:1 17 194
4:24 (p. 453) Sunna 2 -
4:25 (p. 193) 4:25 2 ae
4:29 (p. 193) 4:29 5 7
4:29 (p. 182) 24:61 5 7
4:33 (p. (142) 33:6 19 33
4:33 (p. |142)) 8:75 20 33
4:43 (p. [62)) 5:90 12 26
4:43 (p. 62) 5:91 1 :
4:63 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 5 2+
4:64 (p. 190) 9:80 3 6
4:71 (p. 182) 9:91 9 D+
4:71 (p. 182) 9:122 9 25+

APPENDIX

A.2. List OF ABROGATION CLAIMS

[Claimed Abrogated]

4:80
4:81
4:84
4:88

Ke}
ll ol on
NONOCNNNDN
NINSASAIAAA
YS_UO™SI_O@™Sv_s=@™Sv_O@™O™E SSE

TUT?
RISE
NAA Nin
[e9} |o9] |oo| [on
| |" "' ~S"

( )
(p. 127)
4:145 (p. 127)
( )

On
ow
oo
ee
Sse peso ee
Pee fPe ere re
DN W/E MAAN wWo LO
QYVNR See SS
Sa a ee ee ae er ee ee
~S*

Ke)
=
i)
~]

WV

5:105 (p. 193)
5:105 (p. 127)

5:106-108 (p. [146)

6:15 (p. 185)
6:66 (p. 127)
6:66-67 (p. 193)
6:68 (p. 127)

[Claimed Abrogating]

'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
9:1-11

'Sword Verse'
2:191

'Sword Verse'
9:1

'Sword Verse'
4:48

4:116

25:68

25:70

'Sword Verse'
Sunna
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
4:146

9:17

9:28

'Sword Verse'
5:5

6:121

Sunna

3:159

8:58

9:29

'Sword Verse'
5:34

Sunna

5:49

3:85

'Sword Verse'
5:96

'Sword Verse'
5:105

'Sword Verse'
65:2

48:2

'Sword Verse'
9:36

'Sword Verse'

D

+

"h

jm)

Bee SY BO BOERS Oy D5 SEES <0 ye RO ee SOIR TE SS FAS OF ROL SOs 8S LO SO ene SS

[For]

[Against]

APPENDIX

A.2. List OF ABROGATION CLAIMS

[Claimed Abrogated]

6:68-69 (p. 190)
6:70 (p. 127)
6:91 (p. 127)
6:104 (p. 127)
6:106 (p. 127)
6:107 (p. 127)
6:108 (p. 127)
6:112 (p. 127)
6:121 (p. (159)
6:135 (p. 127)
6:137 (p. 127)
6:141 (p. 189)
6:145 (p. [162))
6:145 (p. 162)
6:152 (p. 190)
6:158 (p. 127)
6:159 (p. 127)
7:180 (p. 127)
7:183 (p. 127)
7:199 (p. 186)
7:199 (p. 127)
8:1 (p. 191)
8:15-16 (p. 190)
8:33 (p. 184)
8:38 (p. 190)
8:38 (p. 127)
8:61 (p. 190)
8:61 (p. 127)
8:61 (p. 190)
8:65 (p. [101))
8:67 (p. 190)
8:72 (p. 142)
8:72 (p. 142)
9:1 (p. 127)
9:2 (p. 182)
9:2 (p. 127)
9:5 (p. 190)
9:5 (p. 127)
9:5 (p. 190)
9:7 (p. 127)
9:34 (p. 186)
9:34 (p. 190)
9:36 (p. 127)

[Claimed Abrogating] [For]

4:140

'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
5:5

'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
9:60

5:3

Sunna

2:220

'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
9:60

'Sword Verse'
8:41

8:66

8:34

8:39-40
'Sword Verse'
9:29

'Sword Verse'
47:35

8:66

AT:4

33:6

8:75

'Sword Verse'
8:58

'Sword Verse'
9:29

'Sword Verse'
AT:4

'Sword Verse'
9:60

9:103

'Sword Verse'

BY

S

Co

WDA * S WD WD WHH WH KH GW RVR DW AMWE ]HOKRH WH AK WDWDWDHK ADH WAT WNRO SO
os

[Against]

mS
me
+

NS TUR D PS THN R

APPENDIX

A.2. List OF ABROGATION CLAIMS

[Claimed Abrogated]

9:39 (p. 183)
9:39 (p. 183)
9:41 (p. [148})
9:41 (p. [148))
9:43-44 (p. 182)
9:80 (p. 190)
9:80 (p. 190)
9:97-98 (p. 184)
9:103 (p. 191)
9:120 (p. 182)
9:123 (p. 190)
10:15 (p. 185)
10:20 (p. 127)
10:41 (p. 127)
10:46 (p. 127)
10:99 (p. 127)
10:102 (p. 127)
10:108 (p. 127)
10:109 (p. 127)
11:12 (p. 127)
11:15 (p. 184)
11:121 (p. 127)
11:122 (p. 127)
12:109 (p. 193)
12:109 (p. 453)
13:6 (p. 184)
13:40 (p. 127)
14:34 (p. 193)
15:3 (p. 127)
15:85 (p. 127)
15:88 (p. 127)
15:89 (p. 127)
15:94 (p. 127)
16:67 (p. 184)
16:82 (p. 127)
16:91 (p. 182)
16:106 (
16:106 (p.
16:106 (p. 190
16:106 (
16:115 (
16:125 (
16:126 (

[Claimed Abrogating]

9:91
9:122
9:91
9:122
24:62
63:6
9:84
9:99
9:84
9:122
9:36
48:2

'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'

17:18

'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'

87:6
Sunna
4:48

'Sword Verse'

16:18

'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'

5:90

'Sword Verse'

5:89
4:98
16:106
16:110

'Sword Verse'

5:5

'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'

CW Ww MRK WHHHRHK HH GS YW TW WHH DW RE BAHK GAH GAKRYKHMWHRMDMHAH DE OHO

[For]

S

S

So

oh

[Against]

ds

APPENDIX

A.2. List OF ABROGATION CLAIMS

[Claimed Abrogated]

16:127
17:24
17:25
17:34
17:34
17:35
17:54
17:110
17:110
18:29
18:29
19:26
19:39
19:59
19:71
19:75 (p. 127

19:84 (p. 127

20:114 a 190)
20:130 (p. 127)
20:135 (p. 127)

os

p. 127)
. 182
. 127
. 190
. 190
. 190
. 127
p. 190)
p. 190)
_ 182)
_ 182)
_ 453)
_ 127)
_ 182)
)

)

)

some)

0 '0

Ee pea te GEE a.
et ae Ret a

bo) aero)

homo}

. 184

0 '0

Soe eS SSeS
some)

21:78-79 (p. 184)
21:98-100 (p. 184)

21:109 (p. 127)

22:28 (p. 193)
22:30 (p. 182)
22:39 (p. 190)
22:49 (p. 127)
22:52 (p. 190)
22:56 (p. 127)
22:68 (p. 127)
22:69 (p. 127)
22:78 (p. 182)
22:78 (p. 182)
23:54 (p. 127)
23:96 (p. 193)
23:96 (p. 127)
24:2 (p. 190)
24:2 (p. 453)
24:3 (p. [150))
24:4 (p. 183)
24:4 (p. 183)
24:4 (p. 190)
24:6 (p. 182)

[Claimed Abrogating]

'Sword Verse'
9:113

'Sword Verse'
2:220

3:77

83:1

'Sword Verse'
15:94

7:205

76:30

81:29

Sunna
'Sword Verse'
19:60

19:72

'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
87:6

'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
Sunna
21:101-103
'Sword Verse'
Not mentioned
5:3

39:3

'Sword Verse'
87:6

'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
2:286

64:16

'Sword Verse'
Not mentioned
'Sword Verse'
4:25

Sunna

24:32

24:5

24:6

24:7

24:7,9

CW WR aT WAY HWA D GH W WD BF HW EH YW LOH HW LO GT GW DWRHRRHHK AGTH HH S SG SO
oS

[For]

[Against]

10+

RR DRY
to to

mR DD! AW © CG WWwWHWKHHK SHH AOD

rn!

mH HR CoG GOH !

APPENDIX

A.2. List OF ABROGATION CLAIMS

[Claimed Abrogated]

24:27
24:31
24:31
24:32
24:54

24:58
24:61
25:43
25:63
25:68-69
25:68-70
25:68-70

(
(
(
(
(
24:58 (p.
(
(
(
(

. 36)
_ 193)
_ 183)
. 190)
. 127)

193)
ies
. 190)
. 127)

p. 127)

(p. 183)
(p. 184)
(p. 184)

26:224 (p. 182)

27:92
28:55
29:46
29:46
29:50

30:60
31:14
31:23
32:30
33:4-5
33:48
33:49
33:51

34:25
35:23
36:76
37:102
37:174

37:178
37:179

38:88 (p.

39:3 (p.

(
(
(
(
(
30:44 (p.
(
(
(
(

(

(

(
33:52 (p.

(

(

(

( )
(p. 127)
371175 (p. 127)
( )
( )

. 127)
. 127)
_ 182)
. 197)
5 187)

127)
_ 127)
. 453)
- 107)
_ 127)

p. 453)

127)
. 190)
. 190)
(153)
: 197)
. 197)
ya

p. 184

133)

[Claimed Abrogating]

24:29

24:31

24:60

24:3

'Sword Verse'

Not mentioned

24:59

4:29

'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
25:70

4:48

4:93

26:227
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
9:29

'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
Sunna
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
Sunna
'Sword Verse'
2:237

33:50

33:50

'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
37:107
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
Sunna
Analysis
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
22:39

[For]

+ +

mR RD TH DRHHRD]HRKRHK HTH WDA HK RVWWDH WRK HWA AAR KKH HK VWWSH HEH Y LT NY
So

[Against]

12+

6+

we Awar* &S
+

S

%S® WwW AWK AY WHO! HW !

me Up CoRm RH GM SG WW !

APPENDIX

A.2. List OF ABROGATION CLAIMS

[Claimed Abrogated] [Claimed Abrogating] [For] [Against]
39:3 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 3 4
39:13 (p. 185) 48:2 7 6+
39:15 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 3 5
39:23 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 1 1
39:36 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 2 1
39:39 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 4 6
39:40 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 4 6
39:41 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 3 3
39:46 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 3 3
39:53 (p. 193) Not mentioned 1 1
40:12 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 1 1
40:55 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 4 2
40:77 (p. 193) 40:77 1 :
40:77 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 2 3
41:34 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 3+ 4
42:5 (p. 184) 40:7 Z 13
42:6 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 4 2+
42:15 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 6 4
42:20 (p. 184) 17:18 3 ces
42:23 (p. 190) 34:47 3 12
42:39 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 2 6
42:39-42 (p. 190) 42:43 4 &
42:40 (p. 193) 42:40 2 5
42:40 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 3 34
42:42 (p. 190) 23:96 1 1
42:42 (p. 190) 41:34 1 1
42:48 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 1 3
43:41 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 1 1
43:83 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 6 3
43:89 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 9 1
44:59 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 6 4
45:14 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 12 3
46:9 (p. 190) 33:47 9 134
46:9 (p. 190) 48:2 10 134
46:9 (p. 190) 48:5 10 13+
46:35 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 4 2
47:4 (p. 190) 8:57 11 10
47:4 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 15 21
47:36 (p. 186) 9:60 1 5
47:36 (p. 190) 47:37 1 5
47:36-37 (p. 190) 47:38 1 :
48:2 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 1 -
48:25 (p. 127) 'Sword Verse' 1 3

APPENDIX

A.2. List OF ABROGATION CLAIMS

[Claimed Abrogated]

50:39
50:45
51:19
51:19
51:54
51:54
52:31
52:45
52:48
52:48 (p. 127
53:29 (p. 127
53:39 (p. 191
54:6 (p. 127)
56:13-14 (p. 190)
58:12 (p. [91)
59:3 184)
59:7
60:8
60:8
60:8
60:8
60:9
60:10
60:10
60:10
60:11
60:11
60:11
60:11
60:12
63:10
64:14 (p.
65:2 (p. 453)
65:6 (p. 453)
67:16 (p. 190)
68:44 (p. 127)
68:48 (p. 127)
70:24-25 (p. 186)
70:5 (p. 127)
70:42 (p. 127)
73:1-2 (p. 190)
73:1-4 (p. [111))
73:1-4 (p. 194)

p. 127
p. 127

eye os

WrRre

"IG ©

YK A
Vw Pw ww

home)
aon
em)
a

ce
ys} Ke}
i i
eo) i)
is "I
S_eoOnSI@__ SI°_@™vO™EE "rE"

S93
es
ey
Re

PN RS SS Se GB

O'S FO "OR re ae es

= _ ww
PeiApreerew ES)
OOl_FAnuaweNA ~—
So OW A a &

Nom a

S

een
>
Or
w

* ue)

ee me

(eg) i)

a "I
S_oOSI$F@_ Svs @™ "ES"

Ke)
=
i)
~]

[Claimed Abrogating] [For]

'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
9:60

9:103

51:55

'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
Regular prayers
'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
52:21

'Sword Verse'
56:39-40
58:13

9:29

8:41

9:1-11

60:9

58:22

'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
5:5

9:1

'Sword Verse'
8:41

9:1

Sunna
'Sword Verse'
Unanimity
9:60

'Sword Verse'
Unanimity
Sunna

54:46

'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
9:60

'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
73:3

73:20
Regular prayers

ae

A

ER RE RE Cor CO Se RS 0 Rt Sy BO SO Sy Oy

oh

es Ee A ee ere

[Against]

RR ON
nN

Pee ge ae

®
c+

©

WAP WH SWE Do |

%©
i

APPENDIX

A.2. List OF ABROGATION CLAIMS

[Claimed Abrogated]

73:3 (p. 190)
73:4 (p. 193)
73:5 (p. 40)

73:10 (p. 127)
73:11 (p. 127)
73:19 (p. 190)
74:11 (p. 127)
75:16 (p. 190)
76:8 (p. 127)
76:24 (p. 127)
76:26 (p. 193)
76:29 (p. 190)
80:12 (p. 190)
81:28 (p. 190)
81:28 (p. 190)
86:17 (p. 127)
87:6 (p. 182)
87:14 (p. 186)
88:22 (p. 190)
88:22 (p. 127)
94:7 (p. 193)
95:8 (p. 127)
103:2 (p. 34)
107:7 (p. 193)
109:6 (p. 127)

Total: 432 claims.

[Claimed Abrogating]

73:4

20:2

4:28

'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
76:30

'Sword Verse'
87:6

'Sword Verse'
'Sword Verse'
17:79

76:30

76:30

76:30

81:29

'Sword Verse'
87:7

9:60

9:73

'Sword Verse'
Not mentioned
'Sword Verse'
103:3

Not mentioned
'Sword Verse'

MrEWAWHORFKFHE RWW WDWWDWNDSWDWWRFRwWWWDWAHRHHE

[For]

[Against]

SESS SES ROSS SEO: SOMO SSE SOE SE RO OS: SO:

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

A.3 Abrogation Claim Narrations

This appendix is concerned with collecting all the narrations attributed to the
Prophet (PBUH), or his fellows or their followers (second generation scholars),
which have been rated authentic by a recognized narration rating scholar, and
whose texts assert or reject the abrogation of specific verses in the Quranic
script. The reader will notice that the attribution of almost all such narrations
is stopped at a fellow of the Prophet or at a second-generation scholar. Only
a few are attributed all the way back to the Prophet (PBUH), and all of those
are parts of narrations by Ibn Abbas (RA) that reject the abrogation claim.

We obtained these narrations by conducting searches in available classical
books. We started by searching the narration encyclopedia (Al-Dorar Al-
Saniyya [89]) for all narrations whose text contains the word naskh or any of
its derivations and conjugations.©° The result set had 505 narrations'. We
filtered out narrations that did not speak of the abrogation of a specific verse
in the Quranic script. Then we filtered out narrations that were not rated
authentic, or a word to that effect,® resulting in the final list of 83 narrations.
We followed a similar discipline in searching the narration index by Wensinck
[205]. Finally, we looked up the sourcing and the texts of all the narrations in
their stated sources and documented that in our list below, so that the benefit
of this appendix may be complete.?

A study of the abrogation of verses requires knowing which of the narra-
tions that assert abrogation are certain in sourcing, that is which narrations
have been ubiquitously told, see §2.3.1, and their sourcing chain is connected.!°
Such narrations qualify to be juristic evidence for abrogation.

Scholars defined ubiquity to be narrating by many from many, but they
did not agree on how many is that, so we took the minimum they suggested
which is three narrators. Thus, if we can find three narrations whose sourcing
is authentic and connected, and each has an independent chain of narrators
from the other, then the condition of ubiquity has been verified.!!

Since our subject here is the abrogation of Quranic verses, we divided
the narrations about abrogating each verse into two groups: one group lists

6The encyclopedia made that possible by availing search by root.

7 As of March 2019.

8 Words such as "Its narrators are trustworthy", "Authentic per the criteria of the two el-
ders (Al-Bukhari and Muslim)", "Soundly authentic", "Sound or authentic", "Established",
"Valid", "Depended on", "Used for evidence", but not words such as "Authentic by virtue of
other narrations", "Authentic by virtue of other evidence", "Hopefully authentic". The rat-
ing "valid" was made by Abu-Dawoud, and scholars differed in interpreting what it meant,
so we decided to include it to be on the safe side.

9For narrations that we could not find in their stated source, we wrote them as they
appeared in the narration encyclopedia site.

10Connectedness of sourcing is a condition of authentication with Al-Bukhari and Muslim.
11Some narrations differ slightly in their text, which the scholars called "ubiquity of mean-
ing", so we decided to include such narrations to be on the safe side.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

the ones asserting abrogation regardless of their text or originator, followed
by a group that lists the narrations that reject the abrogation of the verse
specified in them, regardless of their text or originator. We considered in each
group all of its narrations, even if their text or originator differed, as long as
they all agree on asserting or on rejecting the abrogation of the verse.!?

While the filtered search described above produced narrations whose sourc-
ing chains are not completely connected but a scholar rated them authentic,
we did not include these narrations in the ubiquity verification because the
missing narrators could be common between two narrations, thus violating the
condition for independent narration chains. And we make clear whether the
narrations in a group meet the ubiquity ("tawator" in Arabic) test or fail it,
based on the above criteria.

This is done by examining the sourcing chains of all narrations in each
group and observing their independence from each other, i.e., there is no nar-
rator common between them except the originator of the narration. If we can
find this condition in at least three of the narrations (the minimum number
suggested by hadith scholars), then ubiquity is established.

For narrations that pass this test and state abrogation, we follow the
group header with an affirmative checkmark (~'), followed by the number of
narrations that passed the ubiquity test. For those that pass the ubiquity test
and state a rejection of abrogation, we follow the group header with a negatory
checkmark (X), followed by the number of narrations that passed the ubiquity
test. This is the primary purpose of this appendix: to find narrations certain
in sourcing which assert or reject abrogation of specific verses in the Quranic
script.

Interestingly, narrations regarding the abrogation of a specific verse can
have both ubiquitous evidence stating abrogation and ubiquitous evidence
rejecting it. This is not illogical; it is the result of differing opinions about
a claim of abrogation, and also the use of the word naskh in its broad linguistic
sense and not the strict conventional sense of abrogation.

As part of our discussion of each narration, we list its originator and the
direct narrator from him in the narration chain. We present in the sourc-
ing validation section the scholars' analysis of whether it is connected all the
way and authenticated, and in the abrogation validation section, whether the
scholars' analysis of its text led them to conclude abrogation.

12Proper ubiquity is supposed to be verified for each originator by himself, but some may
find that too limiting, as they see ubiquity in the opinion about abrogation that comes
from early Muslims collectively. Therefore, we decided to consider all originators in the
verification as long as the sourcing chains ending with them are independent.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Narrators rated untrustworthy

Two narrators in the sourcing chains of many narrations listed below have been
rated untrustworthy for various reasons by the hadith scholars. The presence
of these narrators in a sourcing chain weakens its validity. Nevertheless, some
scholars chose to rate such narrations authentic. Because of this, we will
still count these narrations in determining ubiquity, while pointing out this
weakness. The two narrators rated as untrustworthy appear in the chains of
28 out of the 83 narrations of this appendix. They are:

Ataa Al-Khorasani

Muhammad bin Saleh Al-Mudayfer, who verified Ibn Sallam's book on ab-
rogation (Ibn Sallam {171]), reported that Al-Khorasani "was often confused,
left out narrators from the chain and imposed - Jy je 29 eS wt ". Ibn Hajar
[158] confirmed.

In his book on narrator appraisal, Ibn Hibban [162] wrote that
Al-Khorasani "had a poor memory and was often confused, and erred without
knowing ... so as that became common in his narrating, he ceased to be used
for evidence - cayly, 3 LU3 gS Leb... ply Vy Glare cats oS cbse! ess, olf
a glee VI ta". :

Al-Bukhari [36] listed him among the "weak", and reported a narration
by Sulayman ibn Harb from Hammad ibn Zayd from Ayyoub from Al-Qasem
ibn Aasem that he said to Said ibn Al-Musayyeb, "Ataa Al-Khorasani told me
that you told him that the Prophet (PBUH) ordered one who mated with his
wife during the daytime in Ramadan to apply the expiation of Zahar (a pre-
Islamic divorce practice). He said: Ataa lied about me. I did not talk to him.
What I learned was that the Prophet said: Give charity."

Finally, we found confirmation of all that in S. Al-Zahabi [119], his land-
mark book, including that Al-Khorasani (who frequently narrated from Ibn Ab-
bas (RA)) did not even meet Ibn Abbas (RA).

Al-Khorasani was in the narration chains of 3 narrations below, narrations
number 1, 2, and 7.

It is important to point out that there are many narrations attributed to
an Ataa, without specifying the last name. There is another notable Ataa whose
last name is Ibn Abi-Rabah, and hadith scholars agreed that he was a trust-
worthy narrator. This ambiguity of the last name caused some scholars, most
notably Al-Bukhari, to authenticate narrations attributed to an Ataa, think-
ing he was Ibn Abi-Rabah, but further scrutiny revealed that the narrations
came through Al-Khorasani instead (Ibn Hajar [159]). This posed a sourcing

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

problem for 9 more narrations which are narrations number 5, 6, 12, 13, 14,
16, 17, part of 26, and part of 27.

Al-Hussein ibn Waqid

Also referred to as "Hussein ibn Waqid", since it is customary to drop the
definite article "Al-" in proper names, Ibn Hajar [157] wrote about him that
"he has illusions - alagl 4)". Many scholars of narrator appraisal rated him
untrustworthy because he imposed - scholars such as Abu-Yaala Al-Khalili,
Al-Daraqutni, S. Al-Zahabi, Al-Alaai, Al-Maqdesi, Al-Halabi, and Al-Suyuti.
Al-Munziri rated him weak (Ibn Al-Jawzi [147]). Al-Albani [11] added Ibn
Wadqid's son, Ali, to the criticism.

Ibn Wagqid was in the narration chains of 16 narrations below, narrations
number 3, 21, 22, 23, 25, 40, 41, 43, 49, 72, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, and 82.

e List of narrations

The 83 narrations listed below are grouped by the Quranic verses that were
claimed to be abrogated, in their order of the Quranic script.

1. On abrogating verse 2:115

Ubiquity verification: We could not find a narration with connected
sourcing that asserts the abrogation of this verse. Therefore, ubiquity
is not verified.

[Narration # 1] Narrator: Ibn Sallam, originator: Tbn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

aba old - rlel abi, US os3 Ls - La ge feed be Ol JB phe onl os pre ol 69)
cls A Se

[ie :5,ad11 { . dbl Ao 265 195 KG Silly 5 Schl alg >

wipe Saal) Call Ty patel co joe Leb caley ade Sr Le alt J ets
Mh Ages ag Sal

EGU A bass Aap ss Os UB ca St 55)
o- 5 2l] € ... 5k

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Translation:

Narrated Ibn Sallam that Ibn Abbas (RA) said, "The first to be abrogated in
the Quran - of what we've been told, and God knows best - is the qibla. God
said, "And to God belongs the East and the West, so, wherever you turn - there
is the Face of God ..." [2:115]. The Messenger of God (PBUH) prayed toward
Jerusalem and left the ancient house (the Kaaba in Mecca), then God diverted
him to His house and abrogated it when He said, "And wherever you go out,
turn your face toward the Sacrosanct Mosque. And wherever you all may be, turn
your faces toward it ..." [2:150]

Sourcing validation:
Invalid because it has a gap in the narration chain; Ibn Sallam was not a con-
temporary of Ibn Abbas (RA). We looked for the text elsewhere and found sim-
ilar text narrated by Al-Khorasani (Ibn Sallam [171], Ibn Abi-Hatem [142]),
but that too is invalid because Al-Khorasani, as we mentioned above, has been
rated untrustworthy in narrating. Al-Hakem, however, authenticated it.

Abrogation validation:
In his book of exegesis, Shaker [196] reported interpretations made by Ibn Umar
(RA), Mujahid, Al-Basri, and Al-Tabari that make the claim of abrogation un-
necessary.

Summary |: Sourcing is invalid, and abrogation is not agreed.

2. On abrogating verse 2:180

Ubiquity verification: We found only two narrations with independent,
connected sourcing chains that assert the abrogation of this verse.
Therefore, ubiquity is not verified.

[Narration # 2] Narrator: Ibn Sirin, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

PANN che Sl ge SAN Bye LB be bol le SB cue ol oF b> ot! Gy

One ai

[yar 5lll Cm GONG hI Keogh GS 955 A. P

ANI ola Feud : Sls

Translation:
Narrated Ibn Hanbal from Ibn Sirin saying, "Ibn Abbas sat down and read
Chapter 2 until he reached the verse, "... if he (a muslim about to decease)

"

leaves wealth, [there should be] a will for the parents and closest relatives ...
[2:180], and said, 'This verse was abrogated.' "

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Sourcing validation:

Invalid because it has a gap in the narration chain; Ibn Hanbal was born
after the death of Ibn Sirin, so the sourcing is disconnected. We looked for
that text elsewhere and found similar wording narrated by Al-Khorasani (Ibn
Abi-Hatem [142]), but that too is invalid because Al-Khorasani was rated
untrustworthy in narrating, as we mentioned above. Shaker [196] wrote that
he could not find this text in its stated source, but he nevertheless decided to
authenticate it.

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation is stated in the text of the narration.

Summary |: The text states abrogation, but the sourcing is invalid.

[Narration # 3] Narrator: Ikrima, originator: Ibn Abbas (Ra)
Arabic text:

cote or ora (da Se oF

of?

[Ar 5 all] Cm GeSaVly BIG Keogh AS SG Oy...

Translation:
Narrated Ahmad ibn Muhammad Al-Marwazi from Ali ibn Al-Hussein ibn
Wadqid from his father from Yazid Al-Nahwi from Ikrima from Ibn Abbas (Ra),
quoting the verse, "... if he (a muslim about to decease) leaves wealth, [there

should be] a will for the parents and closest relatives ..." [2:180], "So, wills were
like that until they were abrogated by the inheritance verse."

Sourcing validation:
Invalid because Al-Hussein ibn Waqid was rated untrustworthy in narrating,
as we mentioned above. Abu-Dawoud [3] reported it without a rating. The
verifier of his book, Al-Arnaoot, rated it sound. Al-Albani [12] rated it rea-
sonably authentic. Shaker [196] authenticated it.

Abrogation validation:
Shaker, in the reference mentioned above, reported the opinion of Al-Asfahani
that verse 2:180 is explained by the inheritance verse, and the opinions of
Ibn Abbas (RA), Al-Basri, Tawoos, Masrouq, Al-Dahhak, and others that verse
2:180 was abrogated for the heirs mentioned in the inheritance verse but not
for others. Shaker commented on that opinion, saying that this is not called
abrogation, but a specification of a generality. Al-Zahiri [121] rejected the
claim, saying "there is nothing in the inheritance verse that prevents a bequest

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

to parents and relatives." Al-Qurtubi [80] stated "No inheritance until after
debts and bequests are done." These opinions refute the claim of abrogation.

Summary | Sourcing is unreliable, and scholars did not agree that the

text confirms abrogation.

[Narration # 4] Narrator: Unnamed, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

(The narration is quoted here as it appears in the narration encyclopedia,
including their comments on its attribution and authentication)

(wr saadll €... d5di dos pas thy eae CS}

S5ye VI dyyle tye | cop) cpl toed |= esl celpell Bb dep Lgl
Co Stoeall Se Eee | 4/431 25) gh Setall

Translation:
According to Ibn Abbas (RA), regarding the verse, "Prescribed for you, when
death approaches one of you ..." [2:180] that it is abrogated by the inheritance
verse.

Sourcing validation:
Missing chain of narrators.

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation is stated in the text of the narration. See the discussion in narra-
tion number 3 for more details.

Summary |: The text confirms abrogation, but the sourcing chain is miss-

ing.

Note: We included this narration because the narration encyclopedia
(Al-Dorar Al-Saniyya [89]) rated it authentic, but we could not find it in the

source from which it said it was, which is Ibn Al-Arabi's book "sie Lzyle".

[Narration # 5] Narrator: Ataa, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

Sc camesll oe atl! ECB eel oe ema! Le itl Lib! abil te yl Gol
AB od ple ol oe ecly cal op sie Ge Tonmn cal ol oF ce Boll ol el
rey 5

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

[Ws Las {oe BS be S40 2 osGl 3 abl Aaveg! >

fend de US ye WW Geesd Sey pA Aregl Al U Shea gl 2S
(hey full gh Canal coll dees GpHEN ly ery 6 et Lar ee SA yl
cath gh Gp) slo

Translation:
Narrated Abu-Abdillah Al-Hafez from Abdul-Rahman ibn Al-Hasan Al-Qadi
from Ibrahim ibn Al-Hussein from Adam ibn Abi-lyas from Warqaa from Ibn
Abi-Najeeh from Ataa from Ibn Abbas (ra) regarding the verse, "God com-
mends to you [to will] to your children, for the male like the share of two females
... [4:11], that he said, "Inheritance used to be for children and bequests for
parents and relatives, then God abrogated from that as He favored and gave
the male child like the share of two females, for the parents a sixth, for the
husband a half or a quarter and for the woman (wife) a quarter or a an eighth."

Sourcing validation:

Al-Bayhaqi [32] reported it in the chapter on wills and did not offer his opinion
on it except to say, "Al-Bukhari reported it in his authenticated (narrations
compilations book) from Muhammad ibn Yusuf from Wargaa." See narration
6 which weighs in that the 'Ataa' mentioned in this narration is more likely
Al-Khorasani and not Ibn Abi-Rabah. Therefore, this sourcing is in doubt
because of the ambiguity about one of the narrators, Ataa, whether he was
Al-Khorasani who has been rated untrustworthy, or he was Ibn Abi-Rabah
who is trustworthy. Narration 7 coming up preponderates that it was Al-
Khorasani.

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation is mentioned in the text of the narration, but the wording suggests
exception not abrogation.

Summary |: The text states naskh, but the sourcing is unsettled.

[Narration # 6] Narrator: Ambiguous but more likely Al-Khorasani, orig-
inator: Ibn Abbas (RA)

Arabic teat:
fis SAW gees Csi le Us oy DN nd Sui Bost 215 bl Sus ais:
ily CAN Sal sy Ely pI agen ely SS GSU ety <gB bs
Ey Gee cay

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Translation:
Narrated Muhammad ibn Yusuf from Warqaa from Ibn Abi-Najeeh from Ataa
that Ibn Abbas (RA) said, "Property used to be for the children and there were
bequests for parents, then God abrogated from that as He favored and gave
to males the share of two females, to each parent a sixth and a third, and
to the woman (wife) an eighth and a quarter and to the husband a half and
a quarter."

Sourcing validation:
Al-Bukhari [35] authenticated it. However, Ibn Hajar [159] explained that
Al-Bukhari did not narrate from Ataa ibn Abi-Rabah. If he is correct, and
the preponderance of evidence is on his side, then the Ataa mentioned in
the narration chain must be Al-Khorasani who was rated an untrustworthy
narrator by the scholars, as we mentioned above.

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation is stated in the text of the narration.

Summary |: The text states abrogation, but the sourcing is uncertain and

is likely invalid.

Note: The verse claimed abrogated was not mentioned in this narration,
but the other narrations make it clear that it is 2:180.

[Narration # 7] Narrator: Al-Khorasani originator: Ibn Abbas (Ra)
Arabic teat:

14) 9b ea cle oy! of elke o6 celee oy Dletes asa

[Ar 5 alll {Gy hAtGl Keogh... p

ANI ode Yised

Ala Bese cas A SSN iis nt nas eA }
[V: aL { Ly Ska Ural AS sh be BLL S255

Translation:
Narrated Ibn Abi-Hatem from Al-Hasan ibn Muhammad Al-Sabah from Hajjaj
ibn Mujahid from Ibn Juraij and Uthman ibn Ataa from Ataa that Ibn Abbas
(RA) said about the verse, "... a will for the parents and closest relatives ...
[2:180], that it was abrogated by "For men is a share of what parents and close
relatives have left, and for women is a share of what parents and close relatives
have left - be it little or much, a mandated share" [4:7]

"

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Sourcing validation:

Shaker [196] authenticated it and said, "Its sourcing reported by Ibn Abi-
Hatem is authentic." However, the sourcing chain includes Uthman ibn Ataa
narrating from his father. That decisively proves that the Ataa mentioned
in the narration chains of this claim is indeed Al-Khorasani who had a son
named Uthman. The other Ataa, Ibn Abi-Rabah, on the other hand, did not
have anyone narrating from him named Uthman. This invalidates the sourcing
because Al-Khorasani was rated untrustworthy in narrating.

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation is stated in the text of the narration.

Summary |: The text states abrogation, but the sourcing chain has issues.

v4 3. On abrogating verse 2:184
X3

Ubiquity verification: Of the narrations with connected source chains
that assert abrogation of this verse are four independent ones. They
are narrations numbers 8 by Ibn Jubair, 9 by Nafe, 10 by Yazid, and
11 by Qutaiba. Thus, the ubiquity of narrations asserting abrogation
is verified. And of the narrations with connected sourcing chains that
reject the abrogation of this verse are three independent ones. They
are narrations number 13 by Ataa, 15 by Mujahid, and 18 by Ibn Al-
Akwaa. Thus, the ubiquity of narrations rejecting abrogation is also
verified.

[Narration # 8] Narrator: Ibn Jubair, originator: Ibn Abbas (Ra)
Arabic text:

ame oF BF oF 5018 OF dye col op de oe Ob op sitedly oybell only Sebi Gy
ol Apr! ylides Lary DUS 3b Be jyrmly SU eat Gets SB be ol oF em
AN ode 3 AUS Bad pb lage sled Vy Une oye US Landay lel o} |e
[yao 5 atl] {cals 548) eae gh 5 >
Lrail Lals 15) Aryelly hoy Aprall bégked YUIS 3) 2S jyrenlly pS cent endy
Lm py AS \eably

Translation:
Narrated Al-Tabari, Ibn Al-Jarud, and Al-Bayhaqi, by various ways, from Said

ibn Abi-Aruba, from Qatada, from Azra, from Said Ibn Jubair that Ibn Abbas
(RA) said, "A license was given to an old man and an old woman, who could

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

still manage to fast, to not fast if they chose and feed every day a poor person,
and they do not have to fast later, then that was abrogated in this verse, "
so whoever attains the month [of Ramadan], he is to fast it ..." /2:185], and was
confirmed for the old man and old woman who can hardly fast and for the
pregnant woman and nursing woman if they fear (illness if they fast) and feed
every day a poor person."

Sourcing validation:
Authenticated by Al-Albani [11] per the criteria of the two elders.

Abrogation validation:

In his verification of Ibn Dawban's book, "Lighting of the Road - |S! jle",
Al-Albani [11] criticized the author for referring to the word 4,4... in verse
2:182 once that it means "can do it" and another time that it means "cannot
do it". AlAlbani defined it as "that is, they can but with arduity". He
opined that the license was general and then its generality was abrogated by
the exception of the named individuals. These words negate the abrogation
claim because specifying a generality is elaboration, not abrogation. He had
previously reported the narration reported by Al-Bukhari, Al-Nasai, and Al-
Daraqutni from Ibn Abbas (RA) that he said, "Not abrogated. It's the old man
and the old woman who cannot fast, so they may feed for each day they do
not fast a poor person".

Summary | Sourcing is reliable, and while abrogation is stated in the
text, some scholars disagreed.

[Narration # 9] Narrator: Nafe, originator: Ibn Umar (RA)

Arabic text:

ee
GAs :

Bclagie ON cess ab oil ye ail ye ll tee Le eM ae Ue ple Le
Byte os JB GS lna ple

Translation:
Narrated Ayyash from Abdul-Aala from Ubaidullah from Nafe that Ibn Umar

(RA) recited, "a ransom of feeding poor people",? and said, "it is abrogated."

Sourcing validation:

Authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35].

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation is stated in the text of the narration, but the abrogating text is
not mentioned.

Summary |: The text states abrogation, and the sourcing is connected.

13The plural, poor people, is what was said in the narration. However, the ubiquitous
recitation attributed to Hafs from Aasem of verse 2:184 is in the singular, a poor person.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

[Narration # 10] Narrator: Yazid, servant of Salama ibn Al-Akwaa, origi-
nator: Salama ibn Al-Akwaa

Arabic text:

dake Soe say oe al he op SE ge Syl on ane oF FEA SG Wie dys Le
E55 Jb ee

[Ab : 5,8 {Sas plas 553 5 ,2das Spall [Es

AghnS Way AAW ch 2S cceatiy od ie Si aa OS

uy 13 GS SL

Translation:
Narrated Qutaiba from Bakr ibn Mudar from Amr ibn Al-Hareth from Bukair
ibn Abdullah from Yazid, servant of Salama ibn Al-Akwaa, from Salama that
he said, "When this verse was revealed, "... And upon those who would endure
[the fast] - a ransom of feeding a poor person ..." [2:184], it used to be that
whoever wanted not to fast could offer the ransom, until the verse after it was
revealed and abrogated it."
Bukair died before Yazid.!4

Sourcing validation:

Authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35].

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation is stated in the text of the narration.

Summary | The text states abrogation, and the sourcing is connected.

[Narration # 11] Narrator: Qutaiba ibn Said, originator: Salama ibn
Al-Akwaa

Arabic text:

ge tot

NI Ue op Se ey Bae GB SE es YS
AN ods és uj JG eM oy dale oe GM acl Sy sug LS

[Ab 5B) on ySiles AAS A533 yh s spill >

Api 6355 SIN ois CS ss tls atry pad Stas) aoe

is as

M4Tbn Hajar [155] explained this sentence as follows: Bukair ibn Abdullah ibn Al-Ashajj,
who narrated from Yazid (ibn Abi-Ubaid), died before him.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Translation:
Narrated Qutaiba ibn Said from Bakr ibn Mudar from Amr ibn Al-Hareth from
Bukair ibn Abdullah Al-Ashajj from Yazid, servant of Salama ibn Al-Akwaa,
from Salama Ibn Al-Akwaa that he said: "when this verse was revealed, "...
And upon those who would endure [the fast] - a ransom of feeding a poor person
.." [2:184], that it used to be that whoever wanted not to fast can offer the
ransom, until the verse after it was revealed and abrogated it."

Sourcing validation:

Reported by Abu-Dawoud [3] who did not rate it. Muslim [189] authenticated
it, as well as Al-Albani in two books (Al-Albani [12] and Al-Albani [13]) and
pointed also to a third book, Al-Albani [11]. AlArnaoot authenticated it in
his analysis of Al-Tahawi [108]. Al-Tirmizi [113] authenticated it as "sound,
authentic, odd". Al-Nasai [73] reported it and rated it authentic. Ibn Hibban
[161] authenticated it and the verifier of his book, Al-Arnaoot, wrote in the
footnotes, "Authenticated by Al-Bukhari in the exegesis chapter." Al\-Zahiri
[122] reported it with the above-listed content and did not offer an opinion
about its authenticity.

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation is stated in the text of the narration.

Summary |: The text states abrogation, and the sourcing is connected.

[Narration # 12] Narrator: Most likely Al-Khorasani, originator: Ibn Ab-
bas (RA)

Arabic text:

ele oy dese oy cel wee das! ag doses L3> Ang y4 on gil Byes] Sa)
cde eee SBS cal cpl ge alll ee oy WE We AE oy Cty We ca peal
24) ode cls tlle Zl SU SL CISL yay las) (3 cle

[\At 8 al] € ... eon elab bane 45 gala' Spall Ss ¥

rcs) YI coal ee weet) ANI oda cds a ( Eye arbi, Sal ola os le gla o BCS)
Shih, BS py IS Ge pabl old o! oul

Translation:
Narrated Al-Hafez ibn Marduwaih from Muhammad ibn Ahmad from Al-
Hussein ibn Muhammad ibn Bihram Al-Mahrami from Wahb Ibn Baqiyya
from Khaled ibn Abdullah from Ibn Abi-Layla that he visited Ataa in Ra-
madan and he was eating and said that Ibn Abbas (RA) said, "This verse was
revealed, "... And upon those who would endure [the fast] - a ransom of feeding
a poor person ..." [2:184], so whoever willed could fast and whoever willed

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

could eat and feed a poor person, then when this [other] verse was revealed,
it abrogated the first one and excepted the old, aging person, if he willed he
may feed a poor person and eat."

Sourcing validation:
Mentioned by Shaker [196] without complete sourcing, and he did not give his
opinion on its authenticity except to say that it's reported by Abu-Dawoud
and that the part of it that Al-Hakem reported only referred to conditions of
fasting and authenticated it.

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation is stated in the text of the narration, but it states exceptions for
the elderly.

Summary |: The text states abrogation, with exceptions, but the sourcing

is unreliable.

[Narration # 13] Narrator: Ataa, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

Gl Ree elle oe slur op ype We Glew! op cb, 5j) Woe oy Wat! Glew} due
BA ye yt ad roll Bh DB Se tab Ws SiG Gl ey LE ole
Situs gh IE SISA glaghetl clayes Bf glabity Y 50) Bhatly Su

Translation:
Narrated Isshaq from Rawh from Zakariyaa ibn Isshaq from Amr ibn Dinar
from Ataa that he heard Ibn Abbas (RA) reciting, "and upon those encumbered
with it (fasting) is a ransom, feeding every day a poor person".!> Then said,
"it is not abrogated. It was about an old man or an old woman who cannot
fast, so they feed a poor person for every day."

Sourcing validation:
Authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35].

Abrogation validation:
Explicitly rejects abrogation.

Summary |: The text rejects abrogation, and the sourcing is connected.

[Narration # 14] Narrator: Ataa, originator: Ibn Abbas (Ra)
Arabic text:

15The wording is different from the verse, using another conjugation of the verb (translated
into 'encumbered with it').

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

oF csliyy Woe C&S We cc ball Cp eet on Oe jawee ceeig legal So-g ewes
JB Le onl oe elke ye Glee oh ae oF (eee Gl ol

[Ab 581 fas plas 553 25 gd rel b>

idol,
[At : sal] € ... IAS & 55 53...
sl Se sip

[At : 8,241] { AS gg

GALI salar BT ly Alec Aolary Y Gall g SUI aegtll Gay al Vy depres cody JE
ate asl bes

Translation:

Narrated Abu-Bakr Al-Naisapuri from Hasan ibn Muhammad Al-Sabbah from
Shababa from Warqaa from Ibn Abi-Najeeh from Amr ibn Dinar from Ataa
from Ibn Abbas (RA) that he said about the verse, "... And upon those who
would endure [the fast] - a ransom of feeding a poor person ..." [2:184], he said
that was one then with the clause "... and whoever volunteers more good ..."
[2:184], he added another poor person "... so that is more good ..." [2:184]. He
said it is not abrogated but God gave a license for the old person who cannot
fast and ordered that he be fed.

Sourcing validation:
Authenticated by Al-Daraqutni [40], and Al-Azimabadi [22] confirmed.

Abrogation validation:
Al-Sanaani [87] drew attention to the differences between scholars on this
abrogation claim.

Summary |} The sourcing is connected, and the text rejects abrogation,

although several disagreed.

[Narration # 15] Narrator: Mujahid and Ataa, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

oe 6 fet We icy Woe db oy Gece We pee ool bSs aU) AS oy dao} Lit
Bo whe onl oe sllary tale oe (ees cal ol

[At 8 aI] ... Stns Alas Fare de} "pall SS a

: Jb

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

[As 381 {Ss flab 553 Wp

del)

[VAs 3a] & ... OB -

passat (a CLAD Nyt hp. i}
wot Vial phe ares gh plrell Glas Y cll SU YY Lhe 3 Yad f 3

Translation:
Narrated Ahmad ibn Abdullah on behalf of Abu-Sakhra from Al-Hasan ibn
Arafa from Rawh from Shibl from Ibn Abi-Najeeh from Mujahid and Ataa
from Ibn Abbas (RA) of his saying about the verse, "... And upon those who
would endure [the fast] - a ransom of feeding a poor person ..." [2:184], that
he commented that was one (poor person) then he commented on "... and
whoever volunteers more ..." [2:184] that this is another poor person, and that
the verse is not abrogated. Then he commented on "... so it is better for him
and that you fast is better for you ..." [2:184] that the license to break the fast is
only for the old person who cannot fast or a sick person who will not recover.

Sourcing validation:
Authenticated by Al-Daraqutni [40].

Abrogation validation:
Rejecting abrogation.

Summary |: The text rejects abrogation, and the sourcing is connected.

[Narration # 16] Narrator: Ataa, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

PWS BR icy Ae BE oy Genel te Bee ol Sy alll Le Gy teed ae
Lah ele onl Rew al cle oe Glee on yee oe Gee

[At 8 AI] .. Sine Alas 4553 Sb) sill 65 ..

IS GIs orkasd Lapras oh gladery Y ally SU) Beet) gm tpn Cond ole og! Jb
AySeone aye

Translation:
Narrated Ahmad ibn Abdullah on behalf of Abu-Sakhra from Al-Hasan ibn
Arafa from Rawh from Shibl from Zakariya ibn Isshaq from Amr ibn Dinar

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

from Ataa that he heard Ibn Abbas (Ra) recite the verse, "... And upon those
who would endure [the fast] - a ransom of feeding a poor person ..." [2:184], that
he commented that it is not abrogated but it's about an old man or woman
who cannot fast, so they feed a poor person per day.

Sourcing validation:
Authenticated by Al-Daraqutni [40].

Abrogation validation:
Rejecting abrogation.

Summary |: The text rejects abrogation, and the sourcing is connected.

[Narration # 17] Narrator: Ataa, originator: Ibn Abbas (Ra)
Arabic teat:

Lt SB Glau! oy LS5 We SB cdaLe By Ty Woe JB ded op le Woe
Sp Lege WU cosy ole Gel Ree ail sla ys jhe Un ane

[As 524 & .. 1 Sine ta ia 5 E48 sud I }

As ie glerks av yor.) 3 beereng Y bn SI al Sly SSI fecill 2 (AS genres cau!
coe
ea

Translation:
Narrated Ali ibn Shaiba from Rawh ibn Ubada from Zakariya ibn Isshaq from
Amr ibn Dinar from Ataa that he heard Ibn Abbas (RA) say about the verse,
".. And upon those who would endure [the fast] - a ransom of feeding a poor
person ..." [2:184], that it is not abrogated but it is about an old man or an old
woman who cannot fast, so they can feed a poor person per day.

Sourcing validation:
Authenticated by Al-Arnaoot (Al-Tahawi [108]) per the criteria of the two
elders.

Abrogation validation:

Al-Arnaoot mentioned Ibn Al-Jawzi's objection to the recitation "ai,s$b." (as
written in several versions of the narration), which means "encumbered thereby"
because it contradicts the apparent meaning of the text of the verse that the
word means ability to fast by evidence of the part that follows, "... and that
you fast is better for you ..." [2:184] while the other recitation necessities in-
ability to fast. He backed up his opinion by referring to a narration from Said
Ibn Jubair from Ibn Abbas (RA) that he interpreted the word "ai,éJ." to mean
try hard to do it but cannot except with arduity, such as the case of a pregnant
woman, an elderly person, or a sick person or one who is constantly thirsty.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Summary |: The text rejects abrogation, and the sourcing is connected.

[Narration # 18] Narrator: Yazid, servant of Salama ibn Al-Akwaa, origi-
nator: Salama ibn Al-Akwaa

Arabic teat:

oy en of ES oe Syl pe oF rt ar & Ue ee
ON) ode ose LS sdb eM oy telwge Gel ey

[As 324 & .. Sta tes 5G BAL soll ies }
ely Sane flab fyb cig, spidey

[vats 2] € IGS & G5 525... B
IB penrey , Cand) opel eee ale

[Vat 5M] (nad BS I ye pact $i AMS 35 3%
AY yay gh Plena Ger V gl VI] Me 3 Gate

Translation:

Narrated Qutaiba ibn Said from Bakr (ibn Mudar) from Amr ibn Al-Hareth
from Bukair from Yazid, servant of Salama Ibn Al-Akwaa, that Salama ibn
Al-Akwaa commented on the verse, "... And upon those who would endure [the
fast] - a ransom of feeding a poor person ..." [2:184], that "would endure" means
are encumbered by it, that the ransom is for one poor person, and that the
clause "... and whoever volunteers more ..." [2:184] means another poor person,
and that the verse is not abrogated, "... so it is better for him and that you fast
is better for you ..." [2:184], so the license to not fast is only for a person who
cannot fast or is so ill he will not recover.

Sourcing validation:
Al-Nasai [73] reported and authenticated it, and Al-Albani [14] authenticated
it and pointed to his other book, Al-Albani [11], and said that Al-Bukhari
authenticated something like it.

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation was rejected.

Summary | The text rejects abrogation by highlighting a license, and the

sourcing is connected.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

4. On abrogating verse 2:185

Ubiquity verification: Ubiquity is not verified as we found only one
narration asserting abrogation of this verse, and even for that narration
we could not validate its sourcing.

[Narration # 19] Narrator: Unnamed, originator: Ton Umar (RA)

Arabic tect:

(The narration is quoted here as it appears in the narration encyclopedia,
including their comments on its attribution and authentication)

rls J8 SB pe onl oe
[Wee : 5 yacll} .. ALES 54H Ceace Ay 525...

dbs dg es
[Vac 3 pall] {£2 fe $1 Los 2 OF 525
ay

cena olin) 1 btoeed| SS tere | 4/213

Translation:
According to Ibn Umar (RA), the verse "... So whoever attains the month [of
Ramadan], he is to fast it ..." [2:185] was abrogated by the clause that followed
"... and whoever is ill or on a journey ..." [2:185].

"

Sourcing validation:
Unverifiable because the narrator is missing.

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation of an earlier part of verse 2:185 by a later part of the same verse
is stated in the text of the narration.

Summary | The text states abrogation, but the sourcing chain cannot
be verified.

Note: We included this narration because the narration encyclopedia
(Al-Dorar Al-Saniyya [89]) rated it authentic, but we could not find that text
in the reference from which it said it was.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

5. On abrogating verses 2:219 and 4:43

Ubiquity verification: We found only one narration with a connected
sourcing chain that asserts abrogation of these two verses. Therefore,
ubiquity is not verified.

[Narration # 20] Narrator: Ikrima, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

Ges Cae

6b 2

[ors Li foi a5ls > WALL arvana rolpciel VA Er

wy

[85a] € .. wt paling HS Blige B sly 2 52 dels
saga 3 al eg 2
[a+ : 55] € ... CuaNG Sg »

Lay

Translation:

Narrated Ahmad ibn Muhammad Al-Marwazi from Ali ibn Al-Hussein from
his father from Yazid Al-Nahwi from Ikrima that Ibn Abbas (Ra) said that
the verses, "O you who have believed, do not approach prayer while you are
intoxicated ...". [4:43], and "They ask you [, O Muhammad,] about intoxicants
and gambling. Say, 'In them is great sin and [yet, some] benefits for people' ..."
[2:229] were abrogated by the verse in Chapter 5, "... intoxicants, gambling,
stone altars, ..." [5:90]

Sourcing validation:

Reported by Abu-Dawoud [3] who did not rate it. Al-Albani [12] rated it
"sound in its sourcing". Al-Arnaoot who verified Abu-Dawoud's book said,
"Sourcing is sound but for Ali ibn Al-Hussein" who, as preceded, scholars
have criticized. He also mentioned that Al-Tabari reported it from Yahya ibn
Wadeh whose narrating has been abandoned, and that Ibn Sallam reported it
from Al-Khorasani and drew attention to that he never met Ibn Abbas (RA),
as has been mentioned before, and that Ibn Al-Jawzi reported it from Ali ibn
Abi-Talha and drew attention to that he too never met Ibn Abbas (RA), but
Al-Arnaoot saw fit that the sum of all these reports elevates the sourcing to
the rank of authentic.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation is stated in the text of the narration.

Summary |: The text confirms abrogation, but the sourcing is unreliable.

6. On abrogating verse 2:228

Ubiquity verification: All the narrations with connected sourcing
chains that assert the abrogation of this verse were narrated by one
man, Ikrima. Therefore, ubiquity is not verified, since the minimum
number of independent narration chains required before ubiquity may
be verified is three.

[Narration # 21] Narrator: Ikrima, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

Ube onl oF USe

3|

[vrs 3 alld {abe 51 A OE ELS iT ye AL

: Jb,
[sv : jodi f .. JK » el dius a5) GSS ST h5s 155
: Sb, AY

[ras se JI SES al suey EG LS a AS

[6A : 3,8] & ... £958 BSE een sitet Slaetils

Jb,

(EN EE B58 AS) o) ES ys el 5 5-5 SUH
[e: GSI

dls Jb NS ye Gens

ec 3s GB padS She So Gale Sad US Gey S ol LS ye Gat SS ...
[68 Slo]

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Translation:

Narrated Ahmad ibn Muhammad ibn Thabet Al-Marwazi from Ali ibn Al-
Hussein from his father from Yazid Al-Nahwi from Ikrima from Ibn Abbas (Ra),
citing verses 2:106, 16:101 and 13:39, said that the first thing to be abrogated
from the Quran was the gqibla, then said that the verses, "And divorced women
are to wait for three periods ..." [2:228] and "And menopausal women, if you are
not sure, their grace period is three months ..." [65:4] were in part abrogated
by the verse, "... then you divorce them before you touch them, then there is no
grace period for them that you are to observe ..." [33:49]

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Al-Nasai [73] with a different chain and rated it "soundly authen-
tic'. Al-Albani [14] also rated it "soundly authentic", and pointed to his two
books, Al-Albani [11] in which we could not find the text of this narration,
and Al-Albani [12] in which we found the text but not the first three verses,
see narration 22. The father of Ali ibn Al-Hussein mentioned in the sourcing
chain is Ibn Waqid, who has been rated untrustworthy as mentioned above.

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation is stated in the text of the narration.

Summary |: The text confirms abrogation, but the sourcing is unreliable.

[Narration # 22] Narrator: Ikrima originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

janis ais °

6 oe ol Z iake oF

Ree Gertie Car mein ae ral p

[ea Gul
S65 ANS be AS
€ ... G85 She fe jue al eT yore ytd Ol eS Se Gaal O ...
[24: SheV

Translation:
Narrated Ikrima from Ibn Abbas (RA) that he said that the verses, "And divorced
women are to wait for three periods ..." [2:228] and "And menopausal women,

"

if you are not sure, their grace period is three months ..." [65:4] were in part

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

abrogated by the verse, "... then you divorce them before you touch them, then
there is no grace period for them that you are to observe ..." [33:49]

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Abu-Dawoud [3] who did not rate it. The verifier of his book,
Al-Arnaoot said, "Its sourcing is sound. Ali ibn Al-Hussein is the son of
Ibn Waqid Al-Marwazi, whose narrating is sound." See the aforementioned
criticism by the scholars of Al-Hussein ibn Waqid and his son. Al-Albani [12]
also rated it "sound".

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation is stated in the text of the narration, but Al-Arnaoot rejected the
abrogation case saying, "As mentioned before, there is no abrogation here."

Summary |: There is a criticized narrator in the sourcing chain, and the

scholars did not agree that the text means conventional abrogation.

Note: Research showed that this narration was not explicitly authenti-
cated by anyone, but we followed the narration encyclopedia's conclusionary
rating of the narration being authentic to be on the safe side.

[Narration # 23] Narrator: Ikrima originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

Gea 30 of ate

oS Lg BF al GF il of et Ye te cdg all wot BF ee hs

g dhl GE Le Gthees E S50 14% yd O50 SL gate Crd; >
[0A 8 8] € . Sgald)
EUS ond Ap G Gab Or Gary Pa io ib \3) Bice aco) 4 Oley aN

eS

ww

[008 : 5,21] € ...

Translation:
Narrated Ahmad ibn Muhammad Al-Marwazi from Ali ibn Al-Hussein ibn
Wadgid from his father from Yazid Al-Nahwi from Ikrima from Ibn Abbas (RA)
that the verse, "And divorced women are to wait for three periods and it is not
lawful to them to conceal what God created in their wombs ..." [2:228] that a man
who divorced his wife had the right to take her back even if he had divorced
her for the third time, then that was abrogated by the verse, "Divorce is twice
" [2:229].

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Abu-Dawoud [3] who did not rate it. The verifier of his book, Al-
Arnaoot, said, "Its sourcing is sound." Al-Albani [12] said, "soundly authen-
tic." See the aforementioned criticism of scholars of Ibn Waqid Al-Marwazi.

Abrogation validation:

Abrogation is stated in the text of the narration. However, Al-Arnaoot ref-
erenced above, mentioned the rejection of Ibn Al-Jawzi [147] of abrogation,
as he wrote, "It is not said about this that it has an abrogator or abrogated.
Rather, it is the launching of a new legislation and cancellation of a pre-Islamic
tradition." Makki {184] also rejected the abrogation statement, saying, "And
a group of people of semantics said that this verse is abrogating of what they
(people) were used to in the pre-Islamic era ... This verse should not have
been mentioned in [the subject of] the abrogating and the abrogated."

Summary |: There is a criticized narrator in the sourcing chain, and the

scholars did not agree that the text means conventional abrogation.

7. On abrogating verse 2:240

Ubiquity verification: The narrations with connected sourcing chains
that assert abrogation of this verse were made by only two narrators,
Mujahid and Ikrima. Therefore, ubiquity is not verified, since the
minimum required is three.

[Narration # 24] Narrator: Ikrima, originator: Ibn Abbas (Ra)
Arabic text:

SB oh te SB ily oy geod oy le Hath SB aagely op pathy! gy Gee! Wl
GENRE SA Ee tee GY Ey CST ash eae O56 Suslly
[tes : 5,21] ...
deal let det of Syed! Jet Qeniy cctlly atl Ge WI ed Shel ab Ds AS
Wty el

Translation:
Narrated Isshaq ibn Ibrahim ibn Rahuwaih from Ali ibn Al-Hussein ibn Waqid
from his father from Yazid Al-Nahwi from Ikrima from Ibn Abbas (RA) that

the verse, "And those who decease among you and leave wives behind - a will for
their wives: provision for a year without eviction ..." [2:240], was abrogated by

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

the inheritance verse where she is given a quarter or an eighth, and the period
of a year was abrogated to four months and ten days.

Sourcing validation:
Invalid because two of its narrators, Ibn Wagqid and his son, were rated un-
trustworthy in narrating.

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation is stated in the text of the narration.

Summary |: The text states abrogation, but the sourcing is unreliable.

[Narration # 25] Narrator: Ikrima, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

Sea sug oF cal oF Uy) oF ged: oe i exe tsjijall ose SoS io ces ge
le of! oF b aXe Le

GE RE JA Sette pe G5) Hoos EIGHT 555 poate 35538) july p
[t+ : 5,21] €...

AI) GLEN ot OU SIE IE eas cAl3 GE oe Gal Goh Wey Snell BY HS Qt
bes 43

Translation:
Narrated Ahmad ibn Muhammad A-Marwazi from Ali ibn Al-Hussein ibn
Wadgid from his father from Yazid Al-Nahwi from Ikrima from Ibn Abbas (RA)
that the verse, "And those who decease among you and leave wives behind -
a will for their wives: provision for a year without eviction ..." [2:240], that it was
abrogated by the inheritance verse, and the year term was abrogated to four
months and ten days.

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Abu-Dawoud [3] who did not rate it, and the verifier of the book
rated it 'sound'. Al-Albani [12] also rated it 'sound'. See the aforementioned
criticism by the scholars of Al-Hussein ibn Wagqid and his son.

Abrogation validation:
Commenting on this narration, Al-Arnaoot in the footnotes of his verification
of the above reference wrote, "And some predecessors opined that the verse
is taut (not abrogated) and that a part of the year was specific [to mourning]
and the rest of it is a bequest to her and if she wishes she can stay or if she
wanted to she can leave but the mourning period is unchanged. And this was
reported by Al-Bukhari from Mujahid." (see narration 26). Explaining that,
Ibn Kathir [163] wrote: 'So, this opinion on which Ataa and Mujahid depended

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

that this verse does not indicate a requirement to mourn for a year, as claimed
by the consensus [of scholars] such that it would be abrogated by [the shorter
mourning period of] four months and ten days - rather, it is a bequest to wives
that they can stay in the homes of their deceased husbands for a whole year

. and not be deprived of that, evidenced by the words '... without eviction

' [2:240]". So, if after their mourning period they (the widows) chose "to
leave and move out of that house, they should not be prevented from that,
evidenced by the words '.... But if they leave .. [2:240]. This opinion has
a precept and there is support for it in the words, and was chosen by some,
such as Abul-Abbas Ibn Taymia."

Summary |: Sourcing is unreliable, and scholars did not agree that the

text confirms abrogation.

Note: Research showed that this narration was not explicitly authenti-
cated by anyone, but we followed the narration encyclopedia's conclusionary
rating of the narration being authentic to be on the safe side.

[Narration # 26] Narrator: Ibn Abi-Najeeh, originator: Mujahid
Arabic text:

sales oF ceed cal oy! oF det We bale op cy Be Oper op Glee! >

[ove apa) fw Ledysh Sy 555 pLare 5858 ells >
sal dle els gaa} al se baal bell ode Galt : Jb

Pad

we ell fe U4 J WE wget Ke 5 (Sh 5555 pas O58 Suilly }
[sts 8 al] € .. Bone xo os Seebl g Ghd Gg ee FG gk

Oly nes ea eee els Ol cAneg leg carey gel dane ddl eli Us abl fae : JB
les ald S38 Pye > elk

ols CRS te én! aig dlls Jb, cals oF ENS oF} (ile a) ea LS ial
2 las al 5 gay chet Les Ja ylal ite ee aN)

[sts 52d € ... GS) BE. B

al) 38) 2S Selb ly lehey 3 Kay alll Me S38) cald 1 she JG

: les

[ve :s,adl] €.. GS LS Basle ELE WU ..

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

op BSE Sy BD BAY halt be fas Kt a3 bie G tlhe U6
oF lee ys ceed ol fl oby hey et ge ceed ol ol oe Bly Ws cat
al S38 cath Les Jes yal ob Wide FW oka CAS 236 te

[tts 5, aN] €... GUA! RE ... }

OL ted

Translation:
There are two parts of this narration, one attributes it to Mujahid and the
other attributes it to Ibn Abbas (RA) via Ataa!® who attributed it to Ibn Abbas
(RA). Here are the two parts,

First part: Narrated Isshaq ibn Mansur from Rawh ibn Ubada from Shibl
from Ibn Abi-Najeeh from Mujahid about the verse, "And those who decease
among you and leave wives behind ..." [2:234] that Mujahid said: It refers to
the mourning period for the widow that she is required to spend at her late
husband's family home, but then God revealed "And those who decease among
you and leave wives behind - a will for their wives: provision for a year without
eviction ..." [2:240] giving her the remainder of the year, seven months and
twenty days, as an option if she wanted to she can live there or if she wanted
she can leave. That is what God's words mean, "... without eviction. But if they
leave [of their own accord], then there is no violation on your part ..." [2:240], so
the mourning period continued to be required; that's what was claimed that
Mujahid said.

Second part: Ataa said that Ibn Abbas (RA) said: This verse abrogated
her mourning period at her late husband's home so she can mourn wherever
she wants and that is what God's words mean, "... then there is no violation on
your part in what they do ..." [2:234]. Ataa added: Then came the inheritance
[verses] to abrogate the residence such that she can mourn wherever she wants,
narrated that to us Muhammad ibn Yousuf from Warqaa from Ibn Abi-Najeeh
from Mujahid. Ibn Abi-Najeeh also narrated from Ataa from Ibn Abbas (RA)
that he said: This verse abrogated her mourning at her husband's home such
that she can mourn wherever she wants, and that is what God's words mean,
"... without eviction ..." [2:240].

Sourcing validation:
Rated authentic by Al-Bukhari [35]. By scrutinizing the sourcing chain of the
second part, however, hadith scholars came to the conclusion that it included
Al-Khorasani whom they rated an untrustworthy narrator.

16As mentioned earlier, there are two narrators whose first name was Ataa, Ataa ibn
Abi-Rabah and Ataa Al-Khorasani. The narration encyclopedia says that the one reported
by Al-Bukhari in this narration was Ibn Abi-Rabah, but narration appraisal scholars, such
as Ibn Hajar [159], have established that Al-Bukhari did not narrate from Ibn Abi-Rabah.
Therefore, he must be Al-Khorasani who has been rated untrustworthy.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Abrogation validation:

What Mujahid said in this narration (the first part) reconciles the two verses;
the widow spends the mourning period at her late husband's family home for
four months and ten days, and it's up to her to stay there for the rest of the
year if she chooses, therefore no abrogation.

As for what Ibn Abbas (RA) said and confirmed by Ataa (in the second part of
the narration) was that verse 2:240 abrogated verse 2:234 by giving the widow
the choice of where she wants to spend her mourning period. Notably, this
abrogation statement is the opposite of the consensus opinion that it was verse
2:234 that abrogated verse 2:240. Ataa added that inheritance law abrogated
the right of residence for the remainder of the year, stated in verse 2:240.

Summary | Sourcing of the second part has a weakness. The first part

is connected, and the text of the first part reconciles the two verses.

[Narration # 27] Narrator: Ibn Abi-Najeeh originator: Mujahid
Arabic text:

ee Feed col ol oe bb te BLE op oH) Gath pee op Glee) a>

[ort 25a) EIGHT 95555 pbars G5858 Sually

AN OB cely Get Lal Le Aas Fd ode CI Ju

GIN ie SAI AEM pe tg3Y Leoy EUG 3T yh sy Lars 55H Gually
rea Grete cy aarrate We mares ye eeren

Bly Meng BERe Selb Y hey OS ghey Gal tee a pa dll pe
lad ol SB yay Led Silt
ola E585 le bol JB ee ee ae a
: Js At] say cele Sts 1a clglal Le Mine a

[st-:5 5M] €... GIGS) HE. B

ral S38 LoS Selb Bly clgeey ob EBay tga Ue SA) ccld Y) tthe I,
[sve 5,8] €. Gentil o Glad Ls Aatle FIR YG...

Gh SRN Vee gee £23 Neel ole oS lhe J

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Translation:
Just like the previous narration, there are two parts of this narration, the first
one is:

Narrated Isshaq ibn Mansur from Rawh ibn Ubada from Shibl from
Ibn Abi-Najeeh that Mujahid commented on the verse, "And those who decease
among you and leave wives behind ..." [2:234] saying: that was the mourning
period she spent at her husband's as a duty, then God revealed, "And those
who decease among you and leave wives behind - a will for their wives: provision
for a year without eviction. But if they leave [of their own accord], then there
is no violation on your part in what they do with themselves of proper norms
..." [2:240], God assigned for her the remainder of a year, seven months and
twenty days, as a bequest if she wills she can live in what is bequeathed to
her or if she wills she can leave, and that is what God says in, ".... without
eviction. But if they leave [of their own accord], then there is no violation on your
part ..." [2:240]. So, the mourning is the same duty, Ibn Abi-Najeeh claimed
that Mujahid said that.

The second part of this narration is by Ataa. He said that Ibn Abbas
(RA) said: This verse abrogated her [duty of] spending the mourning period at
her husband's family's, so she can spend it anywhere she wants, and that is
what God says in "... without eviction ..." [2:240]. Ataa said: If she wills, she
may mourn at her family's and live in her bequeathed residence, and if she
wills she may leave, for what God says in "... then there is no violation on your
part in what they do with themselves ..." [2:240]. Ataa said: Then came the
inheritance so the residence was abrogated, thus she may mourn wherever she
wants but there is no residence for her.

Sourcing validation:
Authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35]. The text is almost identical to the previous
narration.

Abrogation validation:

What Mujahid said in the narration reconciles the two verses; the widow
mourns four months and ten days at her late husband's home and may continue
to live there for the remainder of one year if she wants. Therefore, there is no
abrogation. But what Ibn Abbas (RA) said, and was backed by Ataa, is that
verse 2:240 abrogated verse 2:234, which is the opposite of what the abrogation
claim states, by giving the widow the option of where to mourn. Ataa added
that inheritance, in turn, abrogated her residence for the remainder of the
year.

Note: The narration encyclopedia (Al-Dorar Al-Saniyya [89]) says that
the narrator is Al-Khorasani, and as mentioned before, the consensus of the
scholars was that he never met Ibn Abbas (RA).

Summary | Sourcing has a problem. The text reconciles the two verses

in the Mujahid part, and reverses the abrogation claim in the Ataa part.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

[Narration # 28] Narrator: Ikrima, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

(The narration is quoted here as it appears in the narration encyclopedia,
including their comments on its attribution and authentication)

155 pEake O58 Spills
[ve ere
ae dso dete css coat wl Us aul oop een al oa ve o

'eb JI ri dowiall WT dew sy tyeedl | pl ee cpl sertoeell | ole cul dye de Xe sey Jl
62899 45) Gute!) oo Bi | meee GH 1 Steel! SS dere | 5/243

ioe

RE Sh Se cee ty Bey EHS

Translation:
According to Ibn Abbas (RA), commenting on verse 2:240, he said: The be-
quest (of residence) was abrogated because God mandated for her a quarter
or an eighth (as her inheritance) and abrogated the year-long (residence) by
making the duration four months and ten days.

Sourcing validation:
We could not locate this text in the stated source, neither on the mentioned
page nor any other, but we decided to include it in this appendix because the
narration encyclopedia rated it authentic.

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation is stated in the text of the narration.

Summary |; We could not find the text in the source from which it was

reported, so we could not verify that the chain is connected.

[Narration # 29] Narrator: Ibn Abi-Mulaika, originator: Ibn Al-Zubair
(RA)

Arabic teat:

1 Qlae oy

[64-25 alll AGH 595555 aad OHS Gals
cp de eed IY sl ol & JE yes gf GSS ol cs SMI ANI Yorn : JB

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Als

Translation:
Narrated Umayya ibn Bestam from Yazid ibn Zuraie from Habib ibn Mu-
laika from Ibn Al-Zubair (RA) that he said to Uthman (RA), concerning verse
2:240, "It was abrogated by the other verse, so why would you write it (in the
Quranic script) or let it (stay in)?" Uthman (RA) replied, "O son of my brother
(figurative), I do not change anything from its place."

Sourcing validation:
Authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35].

Abrogation validation:
The text states abrogation in the opinion of Ibn Al-Zubair (ra)!" but neither
confirms it nor rejects it in the response of Uthman (Ra).

Summary |; Sourcing is connected, but the text neither confirms nor

rejects abrogation by Uthman (ra). However, it states abrogation by Ibn Al-
Zubair (Ra).17

[Narration # 30] Narrator: Ibn Abi-Mulaika, originator: Ibn Al-Zubair
(RA)

Arabic teat:

cp Gee > WE 5} oe sup ope op ee Ui opel ol ot 2 AU Ae de
3S) 3 (all AY) ode Doles Cds rel cy! SB JB AS ol onl oe Lege

[Ste ball € . EAG§T 95555 Pads 33558 Guilly )

Lek BY sl pl U Lge 2S SS pb CAM ees biel 3) Ep 28 UI

Translation:

Narrated Abdullah ibn Abil-Aswad from Humaid ibn AlAswad from Ibn
Abi-Mulaika and Yazid ibn Zuraie from Habib ibn Al-Shaheed from Ibn Abi-
Mulaika that Ibn Al-Zubair (Ra) said to Uthman (RA), "This verse in Chapter
2", and quoted verse 2:240, "It was abrogated by the other one, so why do you
write it (in the Quranic script)?" Uthman replied, "Leave it (in), O son of my
brother (figurative), I do not change anything from its place." One narrator,
Humaid, in the sourcing chain said, "or something like that".

Sourcing validation:

Authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35].

17Notice that Ibn Al-Zubair (RA) asked for the removal of the verse from the Quranic
script, which goes against 'abrogation of the ruling but not the recitation'.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Abrogation validation:
The text states abrogation in the opinion of Ibn Al-Zubair (ra),!' but neither
confirms it nor rejects it in the response of Uthman (RA).

Summary |: Sourcing is connected, but the text neither confirms nor

rejects abrogation in what Uthman (RA) said. However, it states abrogation in
what Ibn Al-Zubair (RA) said."

W4 8. On abrogating verse 2:284

Ubiquity verification: Of the narrations with connected sourcing chains
that assert the abrogation of this verse are four independent ones.
They are narrations number 31 by Abu-Hurayra, 33 by Marwan AI-
Asfar, 34 by Mujahid, and 35 by Salem, son of Ibn Umar (RA). There-
fore, ubiquity is verified, as the minimum required is three.

[Narration # 31] Narrator: Abul-Alaa, originator: Abu-Hurayra
Arabic text:

05 op dy Woe VE a heal cecil play oy darly gpall Slges cy dares igh
AW Sys dle SIG US 2B bee col Ge aah ge etl oe equ 2 ae
sly ade DN Le
ay abetted 218 5f 2nd 3 LAS OL GL, a
erry er sot & Jo Dy tls ys Od, 25 5 jak
acl I Loe ab Dyes IB play ade AON Le atl Jn GEE Je Us Fede sd.
pally SEN oSded SLE Go LES call Jy cel sila 54 Se U9 Goh,
rly ae DV Lo al Syn J cle Vy WW ole Dee If Say BLE, steel,
as Lab eps Alp If Cabs ens AOS oy SES JB Ju Ls Le of aul
lee C5 5H) LISI EB aasll Uy U5 DOE Lab, as AIG eastl Ul, U5
la 3 Ur Ogle ageell

Yl) y 4385 andes Mey abl ely one ie pis oe Vp

(peo Oh OGLE wal, uh 1b aL} oe gol oh ge
[SA0: 8 aN]

"long Se A Gls c, SL 2 08 BS

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Sbdslg YUG 62281 'de, C25 Lb Yay Vs it 272 2 Yb

[An 3d] { ... GUEET ILS

ode

[An sal f WS ye Gall fo GE LS pS! le LEY, LS.
oH db

[CAN 5 alll Co WB YU LEZ Y, 55.

od

€ SBS eSB Jo URaiw UY Ys CS S5I, Lael, Ee Gel, ...

Translation:
Narrated Muhammad ibn Minhal Al-Dareer and Umayya ibn Bestam Al-Aishi
(and the text is Umayya's) from Yazid ibn Zuraie from Rawh (Abul-Qasem)
from Al-Alaa from his father from Abu-Hurayra that when verse 2:284 was
revealed, the fellows of the Prophet (PBUH) took it hard. They went to him
and kneeled, saying: O Messenger of God, we've been assigned work that we
could do - prayer, fasting, fighting, and charity - and this verse was revealed
to you, and we cannot do it. He replied: Do you want to say what the people
of the two Books before you said, "we heard and we disobey?" No. Say: We
hear and we obey, Your forgiveness (we seek), our Lord, and to You is the
destiny. They said it, and when they did, their tongues were humbled. Then
God revealed, after it, verse 2:285 (confirming that they attained faith). Then
God revealed verse 2:286 abrogating it (verse 2:284). When the verse said, "...
Our Lord, do not reprimand us if we forgot or erred ...", the Prophet said: Yes.
When it said, "... Our Lord, and do not load on us a bond such as you loaded it
upon those before us ...", the Prophet said: Yes. When it said, "... Our Lord,
and do not have us carry that which no stamina have we for it ...", the Prophet
said: Yes. And when it said, "... and pardon us; and forgive us; and have mercy
upon us. You are our protector, so give us victory over the disbelieving folk.", the
Prophet said: Yes.
Sourcing validation:

Authenticated by Muslim [189].

Abrogation validation:
Muslim also authenticated another narration that he listed after this one, also
narrated by Abu-Hurayra, in which the Prophet (PBUH) said: Verily, God has
pardoned for my community what they say to themselves as long as they do

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

not speak it or do it. A similar narration is also reported by Al-Bukhari [35].

Summary |: Sourcing chain is authenticated, and abrogation is stated in

the text of the narration.

[Narration # 32] Narrator: Not mentioned!®, originator: Abu-Hurayra

Arabic text:

ee Ab Spey gle og US 2 aye ool ye deol ALY! gy,

ay Enid 55d | age setae mer

ria adad 25 get EB A BLES ye Sats ALSs Sy) jabs AEN

cpaleny ale ALN Le DN Sys Ifa oie ea me
Seely Flo SL rds L Sle Ge als call Saat leas, SN ge Yee 68
Say gl lay cle te ll ay us Agia Vy aI ode Ghle ab Ay By BLBSly
LS, BG as clinbly beat a oe ie me en ee

aL) 5 4,385 andes 5 ly af sna jp a Sghty Je Vp

Cred dey 5 NEE Gal, Cat G5 oh) So 2S os 5H
[SA0: 3 aN]

:Oyls W) Yaus Os ibd Os
O) CAs VG a
[can 32d] { ... GEL 31S

last Jl...

Translation:
Narrated Imam Ahmad (Ibn Hanbal) from Abu-Hurayra that when verse 2:284
was revealed, the fellows of the Prophet (PBUH) took it hard and went to him
and kneeled and said: We've been assigned work that we could do - prayer,
fasting, fighting, and charity - but this verse we cannot do. He replied: Do
you want to say what the people of the two Books before you said, "We heard
and we do not obey"?! Rather, say: We heard and we obey. Your forgiveness
(we seek), our Lord, and to You is the destination. When they said it and

18Sourcing says Imam Ahmad was the narrator, but he was born long after Abu-Hurayra
(RA) died.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

their tongues were humbled, God revealed after it verse 2:285, confirming that
they did, and then revealed verse 2:286 to abrogate it (verse 2:284).

Sourcing validation:
Authenticated by way of similar narrations by Shaker [196] who did not con-
nect its sourcing chain.!9

Note: We found a connected sourcing chain with Ibn Hanbal in it in
Ibn Mandah [167] but its originator is Ibn Abbas (RA), not Abu-Hurayra, so
perhaps that's what Shaker meant by a corroborating authentic narration.

Abrogation validation:

In his book referenced above, Shaker mentions a narration by Al-Tabari from
Hasan Al-Basri that he said: It is not abrogated. Ibn Jarir (Al-Tabari) chose
that and justified it by noting that accounting does not necessarily lead to
punishment, for God may account and then forgive or account and then punish,
as in a narration he reported from Safwan ibn Muhrez quoting God saying, "I
covered it for you from the people and I forgive it for you Today" (Ibn Hibban
[161]). This is supported by what God says in the same verse, "... then He
forgives for whoever He wills and torments whoever He wills ..." [2:284].

Summary |: Sourcing chain is not connected, and the scholars did not

agree that the use of the word naskh in the text meant abrogation.

[Narration # 33] Narrator: Marwan Al-Asfar, originator: Ibn Umar (RA)
Arabic teat:

te Be N il 5 pe ie Me pak Be a WS J a eases le
cfd 15 GP gab BN hy ploy ade WU Ae Zl OELLI
[SAG aN] of .. oyat powers idl 3 Le \g333 ON5 ..

" oN

Translation:
Narrated Muhammad from Al-Nufaily from Miskeen from Shueba from Khalid
Al-Hazzae from Marwan ibn Al-Asfar from a man of the fellows of the Prophet
(PBUH) who is Ibn Umar (RA) (according to one of the narrators in the sourcing
chain), that he said about the verse, ".. and whether you show what is within
yourselves or conceal it ..." [2:284] that it was abrogated.

Sourcing validation:
Authenticated by Al-Bukhari [85] who mentioned that its completion of the
sourcing chain is in a narration by Isshaq ibn Mansur from Rawh from Shueba.

19Tmam Ibn Hanbal was born after the death of Abu-Hurayra.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Note: The front narrator, Muhammad, is Al-Bukhari, in the opinion
of most scholars except Ibn Hajar [155] who opined that he was either Ibn
Idris, which is the agnomen name of Ibn Abi-Hatem Al-Razi, or Ibn Ibrahim
Al-Bushanji.

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation is stated in the text of the narration.

Summary |: Abrogation is stated in the text, but without mentioning the

abrogating verse. The sourcing chain was authenticated, although it mentions
an ambiguous originator who was later identified, making the chain connected.

[Narration # 34] Narrator: Mujahid originator: Ibn Umar (Ra)
Arabic text:

ope gh dil del qdigilitie pte Bde ua plan Je
[ib jae ph ee ES SB alee oe oe dee oF ole
[CAL : a mamas
we ey ch ap Bae GY 8

Lgtewd .Lably

Y als 4355 ads sas dil Gd F aLeb Sy 35 J AAS SN ly
[SAo: 5,8] € ... Me eles yex

[SAT a aM] f .. E2551 be ies «.
SLEW tly WS) cae on al Sows

Translation:
Narrated Ali ibn Al-Abbas ibn Al-Ashaath from Muhammad ibn Hammad A1l-
Tahrani from Abdul-Razeq from Jaafar ibn Sulaiman from Hameed Al-Aaraj
from Mujahid that he was at Ibn Umar (RA)'s as he was reciting the verse,
".. and whether you show what is within yourselves or conceal it ..." [2:284]
after which he began to weep. Mujahid mentioned that to Ibn Abbas (RA) who
smiled and said: May God have mercy on Ibn Umar. Does he not know about
what it was revealed and how? This verse, when it was revealed, caused the
fellows of the Prophet (PBUH) much distress. They said to him: O Messenger

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

of God, we are doomed! He said to them: Say "We heard and we obey".
So verses 2:285-286 abrogated it, thus He pardoned them for what they were
thinking and accounted them by their deeds.

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Ibn Mandah [167] who said: This is an authentic sourcing per the
consensus, except Al-Bukhari who did not narrate from Jaafar ibn Sulaiman.
The verifier of the book criticized Al-Tahrani for narrating from Abdul-Razzaq
after the latter began to be mixed up. But we found the same text attributed
via Umayya ibn Bestam in one narration and another attributed via Ibn Han-
bal. They are two previous narrations, 31 and 32.

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation is stated in the text of the narration.

Summary |} The sourcing chain has problems, but the other narrations

give it support. Abrogation is stated in the text.

[Narration # 35] Narrator: Salem ibn Abdullah ibn Umar, originator:
Ibn Abbas (RA)

Arabic text:

OF Sem Cylgaew oF cops cn RR inwes dle iiwes 6 gel id Cy oy! Jb
Aa gut ol ole oF 6S yl

[At 5 yaall] AL oy CE te SAR 5) Aa A 3 AS O15.
desl ge LS Ke Bd oF) ne Ui UI roi SUB lle Gl ted Als dle exis
Lady il ANI gas EIN ee ahey athe AU) Le all dyes

[CAN al € ... Gand YS di) GES Y p

Translation:

Narrated Ibn Jareer from Al-Muthanna from Isshaq from Yazid ibn Harun
from Sufyan ibn Hussein from Al-Zuhri from Salem that his father (Ibn Umar
(RA)) recited the verse, "... and whether you show what is within yourselves or
conceal it ..." [2:284] and his eyes started to tear up. That story reached
Ibn Abbas (RA) who reacted: May God have mercy on Abu Abdul-Rahman
(Ibn Umar's agnomen name). He did as the fellows of the Prophet (PBUH) did
when it was revealed. It was abrogated by the verse that followed it, citing
verse 2:286.

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Ibn Kathir [163] who attributed it to Ibn Abbas (ra), and said
that it was also narrated from Ibn Umar (RA) and commented that these were

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

authentic sourcing paths.

Abrogation validation:
In his book referenced above, Ibn Kathir mentioned the quote by Al-Hasan
Al-Basri, which was chosen by Al-Tabari, that it is not abrogated, as shown
previously.

Summary | The sourcing chain is judged authentic. Abrogation is stated

in the text, but some scholars did not agree.

[Narration # 36] Narrator: Mujahid, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

2 JB tales os CEM eee oe Cane Uther eel LY! Ju

ere ee ber net et ee ew

[SAG 3 adi] & .. $968 5h aZedil 3G 1,88 Ob - >}

ey ef cle al yey olowel Ete CIA gr AON al Bt le J
rama bape vegies: So} Ula abil Jpop By aw ad LAs pgtbley Khas
Lea WU inky lags WS play atle QU Le all Iyer ol Jus beau ols Libs
ANI ode yc JB Labl,

Us dsl Des eg ea
[sAr-th0 52d] oC .. CELI les CET I ay

Jeet Iyiely a Se oF pel Se

Translation:

Narrated Imam Ahmad from Abdul-Razzaq from Maamar from Hameed A1l-
Aaraj from Mujahid that he visited Ibn Abbas (ra) and related to him that
he was at Ibn Umar (RA)'s and he was reading this verse and crying. He
asked him: Which verse? He replied, "... and whether you show what is within
yourselves or conceal it ..." [2:284]. Ibn Abbas replied: When this verse was
revealed, it distressed the fellows of the Prophet (PBUH) a lot and frustrated
them a lot. They said to him: O Messenger of God, we are doomed! If we are
held accountable for what we say and do [then we are fine] but our hearts are
not in our hands (under our control). He told them: Say, "We heard and we
obey". They said it. Ibn Abbas said: Then it was abrogated by this [verses
2:285-286], thus He pardoned them for what they were thinking and accounted
them by their deeds.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Sourcing validation:

Reported by Ibn Kathir [163] who attributed it to Ibn Umar (RA) as well as
Ibn Abbas (RA) and said both are authentic sourcing paths. A version of it
is also reported by Ibn Hajar [155] who wrote that its origin is at Muslim
(See narration 31) but without the story of Ibn Umar (RA). Also reported by
Al-Tabari [107] with an authentic sourcing chain, attributed to Al-Zuhri, who
said he heard Said ibn Marjana tell it.

It was also reported by Shaker [197] who wrote that its sourcing chain is
authentic and clarified that Hameed Al-Aaraj is Hameed ibn Qays Al-Makki,
and by Al-Arnaoot (Ibn Hanbal [160]) who wrote that its sourcing chain is
authentic per the criteria of the two elders.

Abrogation validation:

In his book referenced above, Ibn Kathir mentioned a narration by Ali ibn
Abi-Talha from Ibn Abbas (ra) that he said: It was not abrogated. Rather,
when God assembles all creation on the Day of Resurrection, He will say to
them, "I tell you what you concealed in yourselves that My angels did not have
access to." As for the believers, He tells them and then forgives them and that
is what the words "... He accounts you by it and then He forgives whom He wills

" [2:284], but the people of doubt and uncertainty, He tells them what they
concealed of belying, and that is what He refers to in "... but He reproaches

you by what your hearts earned ..." [2:225]

Summary |; The sourcing chain is connected, but the scholars did not

agree that the word naskh in the text meant abrogation.

[Narration # 37] Narrator: Salem, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

(The narration is quoted here as it appears in the narration encyclopedia,
including their comments on its attribution and authentication)

ka olf Si

[A653] f 8ga jf Antal SL Ad b) .. p
LS chee AB cpere gl see Wh AN Gg IU ole ial tame als wolye Seon ty eee
sUadkey ol BW ind CIE em ley ade UW Le alll Jp) Sheed aie

[CAN a yall] € .. EGLIS gery EGS Le Uh...

5 gall 5 oll Gb] 1 ylyeeS| | Segal » dowS| | ps oF aul Le oF le Syl Sl
phy tededl ope Bil | eeee oolen| 1ebseall SS Lore | 6/186 245, gf deta!
76715

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Translation:
Narrated Salem that his father (Ibn Umar (RA)) was reading the verse, "...And
whether you show what is within yourselves or conceal it..." and his eyes started
to tear up. That action reached Ibn Abbas (RA) who said: May God have
mercy on Abu Abdul-Rahman (Ibn Umar (RA)'s agnomen name); he did as the
fellows of the Prophet (PBUH) did when it was revealed. It was abrogated by
the verse that followed it, citing verse 2:286.

Sourcing validation:
We could not find this text in the source from which the narration encyclopedia
said it was. However, it is identical to narration 35.

Abrogation validation:
Stated, but abrogation was challenged for the identical version of the narration.

Summary | Sourcing cannot be found in the reporting reference, but the

narration is identical to a previous narration. Abrogation is stated in the text
of the narration.

9. On abrogating verse 4:8

Ubiquity verification: No. Only two independent, authentic narra-
tions, one short of the required minimum of three.

[Narration # 38] Narrator: Ibn Jubair, originator: Tbn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

BY ode GI gyecy LOG Bl sib Lage all oy ple

A: oluall] €... QS tadly seals 558h J) Rtall 75 185 >
EM Sy Coy Sly sglally Las clgy Coll Gyles Lae Sy SALI be ally Vy ESS
dal oh AW ANY Spi ody actly J Ste cil sy Sy V Soy die

Translation:
Narrated Muhammad ibn Al-Fadl Abu-Al-Numan from Abu-Awana from Abi-
Bashir from Said Ibn Jubair from Ibn Abbas (Ra) that he said, "Some people
claimed that this verse, 'And if [other] relatives, orphans, and needy people
attend the division (of the estate) ..' [4:8], was abrogated but by God, it was
not. Rather, people neglected the practice. There are two heirs here; one
inherits and that is the one who gives charity, and one does not inherit and

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

that is the one who gently tells the poor relatives that he cannot afford to give
them charity."

Sourcing validation:

Authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35] without saying which verse it is talking
about, but he did make the verse the title of this section of his book. Ibn
Hajar [155] did include the verse in the text of the narration and attributed
it to Ahmad ibn Humaid from Ubaidullah from Sufyan from Al-Shaybani
from Ikrima from Ibn Abbas (RA) and commented that these two sourcing
chains from Ibn Abbas (RA) are the two authentic, approved ones, and that the
mentioned Al-Shaybani is Abu-Isshaq.

Abrogation validation:
The text explicitly rejects abrogation.

Summary |: Sourcing chain is connected, and the text asserts no abroga-

tion.

[Narration # 39] Narrator: Ikrima, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

ctl oF Se oe SLAY oe olde ge en alll Le Bt tet yp deel te
Lagic AU) oss be

[As lust] € ... yS UM y SEM y SFM gh gl Aina 725 185

ALE oll GF met of dee a Ey Ey US Oe

Translation:
Narrated Ahmad ibn Humaid from Ubaidullah Al-Ashjaai from Sufyan from
Al-Ashbani from Ikrima from Ibn Abbas (RA) regarding the verse, "And if
[other] relatives, orphans and poor people attend the division (of the estate) ..."
[4:8], that it is not abrogated. Ibn Jubair followed him (Ikrima) on that.

Sourcing validation:
Authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35].

Abrogation validation:
The text is explicit in rejecting abrogation.

Summary |} The sourcing chain is connected, and the text rejects abro-
gation.

Note: This sourcing chain is the same as the one reported by Ibn Hajar
in the previous narration, number 38, except that it called Al-Shaybani Al-
Ashbani instead.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

10. On abrogating verse 4:15

Ubiquity verification: No. Only one authentic narration, which is short
of the minimum requirement of three.

[Narration # 40] Narrator: Mujahid originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

5 OS le ol oF

[\o : sLil] € ... Ss be eee ac Dy
Ags dptodl obs oe) Byer EN 5 Lads GEE am Spal oes ES Se

Translation:

Narrated Musa ibn Isshaq from Minjab ibn Al-Hareth from Ali ibn Mussher
from Muslim from Mujahid from Ibn Abbas (RA) who commented on the verse,
"And those who commit the debauchery from your women ..." [4:15], saying,
"They were detained in the homes until they would die, and when Chapter 24
was revealed and the legal penalties sent down, it abrogated that."

Sourcing validation:

Al-Haythami [50] included a version of it and said that Al-Tabarani narrated
it from his teacher Ibn Abi-Maryam, who is weak, and Al-Bazzar narrated
something similar and said that its narrators are men of authentic books ex-
cept Musa ibn Isshaq ibn Musa Al-Ansari who is trustworthy, but he did not
mention the souring chain. So, we looked for it in Al-Bazzar [34] and found it
there, and it is what we list above. Verifier of Al-Bazzar's book said that Ibn
Mussher is trustworthy with oddities, and Muslim (ibn Kaysan Al-Dabbi)??
is weak from the fifth class (of narrator appraisal rankings).

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation is stated in the text of the narration.

Summary |: Sourcing chain is weak, and the text states abrogation.

11. On abrogating verse 4:29

Ubiquity verification: No. Only two narrations, one for abrogation and
one against it, both short of the minimum requirement of three.

20Not to be confused with Muslim ibn Al-Hajjaj who wrote the seminal book of narration
compilations.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

[Narration # 41] Narrator: Ikrima, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

ood ag 82 ctl Fl of Ged YG be Me oa ae ean oa -

cers

(aks ld GE HE GE Ui YY ely 2 wn >}

[64 : slisSl]
2 A UNS 205 GAN ob CI Gy ON Ge asl he BU SI B55 JBI OG
21.6 c ysal

° z

é SLE rs
Nes

[W: poll] € .. CBI... CEs 95 Jo I ISG C Oi zanttl fe V5.
Zoey de UST) a) i 06 cplals J! alah oe BON gol 28h 5 as

yey calle a? ol 53 ee BG of OS 3 ob ey SSI EK: 9835 iSaul
USI al pub

Translation:

Narrated Ahmad ibn Muhammad Al-Marwazi from Ali ibn Al-Hussein ibn
Waqid from his father from Yazid Al-Nahwi from Ikrima from Ibn Abbas
(RA) that he said about the verse, "... do not consume your properties among
yourselves in vain unless it is a trade out of consent from you ..." [4:29], "soa man
would shy away from eating at someone's (home) after this verse was revealed,
then that was abrogated by the verse in Chapter 24 '... nor [a constraint] on
yourselves in eating at your homes ... separately ... [24:61].2! It used to be that
a rich man would invite a family member to food and the person would say: I
refrain from it; a poor person has more right to it than me. Then [this verse]
made lawful eating from what was [blessed with] mentioning God's Name on
it, as well as the food of the people of the Scripture."

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Abu-Dawoud [3] without rating it. Al-Albani [12] rated it "sound
sourcing." Al-Arnaoot, who verified Abu-Dawoud's book, discussed it and said
that its sourcing was sound. Then he mentioned what Makki ibn Abi-Talib
said that the narration is not attributed to Ibn Abbas (RA) but to Ibn Abi-
Hatem from Ibn Masoud (ra). Al-Suyuti and Al-Arnaoot agreed. As has been
forwarded, the scholars criticized Ibn Waqid, and Al-Arnaoot mentioned that
among his critics were Ibn Abi-Hatem and Al-Ugqaily, but he viewed their

21The narration misquotes verse 24:61 as saying pcs oP) ils 3 lacs soe ga? ("there
is no blame on you in eating at your homes") whereas the correct wording is what we
substituted above.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

criticism as having been influenced by the fact that the man was one of those
who believed in the reprieval doctrine.?"

Abrogation validation:
In the book that he verified, referenced above, Al-Arnaoot mentions Makki's
agreement with Ibn Masoud (RA) that there is no abrogation here. He said,
"This may not be abrogated because consuming property in vain can only be
abrogated into allowing that, which neither is good nor lawful."

Summary |} Some scholars invalidated the sourcing chain, and several of
them rejected the abrogation case.

[Narration # 42] Narrator: Alqama, originator: Ibn Masoud (RA)
Arabic text:

alll Le ye dade oe ple ce ea oglo ge eed cpl LE chapel Ge op gle We
adie

[68 : Lust] € .. . bid seats ce laa StS Y ighal 323 aiig »
AL oy I Ao Yy CA LS UY!) Jb

Translation:

Narrated Ali ibn Harb Al-Mawsili from Fudail from Dawoud Al-Awdi from
Aamir from Algqama from Abdullah (Ibn Masoud (RA)) about the verse, "O
you who have believed, do not consume your properties among yourselves in vain
..." [4:29], that "it is not abrogated and will not be abrogated until the Day
of Resurrection."

Sourcing validation:
Al-Suyuti [102] mentioned it and said that Ibn Abi-Hatem and Al-Tabarani
reported it from Ibn Masoud (RA) but he did not connect its sourcing chain.
We looked for the sourcing chain in Ibn Abi-Hatem [142] and found it there,
so we used it above. Al-Haythami [50] writes that Al-Tabarani narrated it and
that the narrators are trustworthy.

Abrogation validation:
The text rejects abrogation strenuously.

Summary || The sourcing chain is connected, and the text emphatically

rejects abrogation.

Note: The narration encyclopedia confirmed that the narrator from

?2The reprieval doctrine states that faith is achieved by belief in the heart and testimony
by the tongue only; that deeds are not part of it nor increase it nor decrease it, which
contradicts the consensus that emphasizes that deeds are an integral part of faith.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Ibn Masoud (RA) was Alqama. This is helpful because the original text men-
tions Ibn Masoud (Ra) by his first name, Abdullah, only. There are four
prominent narrators with that first name. By confirming that Alqama was
the narrator from him, the attribution to Ibn Masoud (RA) is also confirmed
because he was his fellow.

12. On abrogating verse 4:33

Ubiquity verification: No. All narrations are through two people only,
Ikrima and Ibn Jubair. That is one short of the minimum requirement
of three.

[Narration # 43] Narrator: Ikrima, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

° G@-3& go

CEE EIN OW Sat L35e gully" I logis ali 2 we ol ot aXe
JS NB BN ONS 228 AWG ES ccd way oS bo

[ve : Jus { «. aks J5l 48s PENI Jyl5 ..

Translation:
Narrated Ahmad ibn Muhammad ibn Thabet from Ali ibn Al-Hussein from
his father from Yazid Al-Nahwi from Ikrima from Ibn Abbas (RA) about "and
those who were covenanted by your oaths"? that men held alliances with one
another without kinship that they inherit each other. That was abrogated by
the verse in Chapter 8, "... and blood relatives are more entitled to each other
.. [8:75]

Sourcing validation:

Abu-Dawoud [3] reported it and the book's verifier, Al-Arnaoot, said, "Au-
thentic by support from other narrations." He mentioned that Al-Tabari nar-
rated it from Muhammad ibn Humaid Al-Razi, who has been dismissed, and
that among those who narrated it was Ibn Sallam by way of Ataa Al-Khorasani
and Ali ibn Abi-Talha, neither of whom heard from Ibn Abbas (RA), also from
Atiya Al-Awfi who has been rated weak in narrating. Al-Albani [12] rated
"soundly authentic".

23 This is a different recitation of verse 4:33 in which the verb means "covenanted" (ile)
and this is how it appears in the narration encyclopedia, but the ubiquitous Hafs recitation
of the verse uses another verb that means "contracted" (cis).

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Abrogation validation:
In his book referenced above, Al-Arnaoot mentioned what Ibn Al-Jawzi wrote
about the differences between scholars on what is meant by the covenanting,
as well as the statement by Abu-Hanifa, "And this ruling remains, except that
blood relatives have priority over covenanted people." He also mentioned the
narration by Mujahid and Ibn Abbas (RA) that the covenanting was on help
and counsel only; no inheritance.

Summary |: Sourcing chain has a criticized narrator, and scholars did not
agree that the text means abrogation.

[Narration # 44] Narrator: Ibn Jubair, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

ge fl oF ot

pre elas ¢ AMT EAE Gyslly .. digs tes Ky >

&

J yea (Aor) sy B93 Seg (e3 Lai om S| us Oo Ore lea! Ole db

1235 & VB Age ploy ade aU Le gol SI

2s

[rvs sll] {... digs Was 5 p
ged 3 Jb
skh S86 sylhiy

Translation:

Narrated Isshaq ibn Ibrahim: I said to Abi-Usama, "Idris told you that Talha
relayed to him from Said Ibn Jubair from Ibn Abbas (RA), regarding the verse,
"And to each We set up charges .... and those who were contracted by your
oaths ..." [4:33], he said, "When the migrants (from Mecca) went to Medina,
the Medinite would inherit from the (Meccan) migrant leaving out his blood
relatives, for the fraternity that the Prophet (PBUH) established between them.
Then when the verse "And to each We set up charges ..." [4:33] was revealed,
it was abrogated by "and those who were covenanted by your oaths"?%

Sourcing validation:
Authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35].

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation is stated in the text of the narration.

Summary |: Sourcing chain is connected, and abrogation is stated.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Note: In the first part of the narration, as it was written in its source,
the verb used in the quoted verse was "contracted" (cic), and in the end
the verb was "covenanted" (cusle). That is why we wrote it that way.

[Narration # 45] Narrator: Ibn Jubair, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

Eee ot tee oe Spe oy edb oe Gayl ge tall yl We tere gy bell te
Lage AU coo) He ol
(ry: Lill €.. digs Has Bis }

Sr by Bassi eG US Sy lg ais "Soul Lie sli? iy -36

éN5 ih 5 age slay ale all pte fe! Sl Al BES Aor) sy O93 S,laiN|

(ry: Lidl] {digs has 5 }

oe

EN nell ae iy Bemailly 5364 pa oF Hecate isle sx" 6 4 a eres
dolb owl coy uw! iLul Pi co we) eo

Translation:

Narrated Al-Salt ibn Muhammad from Abu-Usama from Idris from Talha
ibn Musarrif from Said Ibn Jubair from Ibn Abbas (RA), regarding the verse,
"And to each We set up charges ..." [4:33], meaning heirs, "and those who
were covenanted by your oaths"? that when the migrants went to Medina,
they would inherit from the Medinite while their blood relatives would not,
and that was for the fraternity the Prophet (PBUH) established between them.
Then when this verse was revealed, "And to each We set up charges ..." [4:33],
it was abrogated, then he said about "and those who were covenanted by
your oaths" [that it means] help, support, and advice after the estate is
distributed, and may bequeath to him. Abu-Usama heard from Idris, and
Idris heard from Talha.

Sourcing validation:

Authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35].

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation is stated in the text of the narration.

Summary |: Sourcing chain is connected, and abrogation is stated in the

text.

Note: This narration says the migrant inherited from the Medinite while
the previous narration says the opposite, so taken together, it means that they

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

inherited from each other, which was stated in narration 43 above.

[Narration # 46] Narrator: Ibn Jubair, originator: Ibn Abbas (Ra)
Arabic text:

ok op eee oe Spee op lb ge ey) ye lel pf Bae dees yp LEI ae
Lagie WU coo) Hl oy
[rr lust € ... digs Was 6s }

les bs ana \yo35 ic) orate ale :Ju "Si Cosle ayy? 455 J
Cig ib cages okey ole an Le 2h ST NE aes oh gb SLA

[rr : Lill € ... digs das 5M »

lel CAS 155 Frnt 5569 GAY ER SBE guiliyy Jud Ass

Translation:

Narrated Al-Salt ibn Muhammad from Abu-Usama from Idris from Talha ibn
Musarrif from Said ibn Jubair from Ibn Abbas (RA), about the verse, "And
to each We set up charges ..." [4:33], meaning heirs, and about the part that
says "and those who were covenanted by your oaths",?? that the migrants
(from Mecca) coming to Medina used to inherit from the Medinite whose
blood relatives don't. That was because of the fraternity the Prophet (PBUH)
established between them. Then when the verse, "And to each We set up
charges ..." [4:33] was revealed, it abrogated the part that says, "and those
who were covenanted by your oaths'"?3 except in help, support, and advice,
after the estate is distributed, and may bequeath to him.

Sourcing validation:

Authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35].

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation is stated in the text of the narration.

Summary |: The sourcing chain is connected, and abrogation is stated in
the text.

[Narration # 47] Narrator: Ibn Jubair, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

2 g°

oF «Sas FI ae il as yy io") cys ec (dale ii as call Le oe Og Gas

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

asl B eK EGE sally" : Ss JS SHE oil ge GE Go tee
alti 388 Al . EU aes oyh 8 ua 268 tach i ib ine aye tgall ae
AI ods CSS OG gs any alts 4 ale Alsi se

pein ede = >
sens (BS BN5 Benelli yal 'So "teal magl Sire Coals Spdllg" gees JG
ell Cabs 184 J

Translation:

Narrated Haroon ibn Abdullah from Abu-Usama from Idris ibn Yazid from
Talha ibn Musarrif from from Ibn Abbas (RA) in regards to the verse?? "and
those who were covenanted by your oaths, grant them their share", he said
that when the migrants went to Medina, they would inherit from the Medinites
while their blood relatives did not. That was because of the fraternity the
Prophet (PBUH) established between them. Then when this verse was revealed,
"And to each We setup charges of what he (a decedent) left ..." [4:33], he said it
was abrogated by "and those who were covenanted by your oaths, grant them
their share'?® of help, advice, and support, and may bequeath to him after
the estate is distributed.

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Abu-Dawoud [3] who did not rate it, but the verifier of his book,
Al-Arnaoot, authenticated it and identified Abu-Usama as Hammad ibn Us-
ama. Al-Albani [12] also authenticated it.

Abrogation validation:

Al-Arnaoot, who verified Abu-Dawoud's book referenced above, mentioned
what Abu-Hanifa and his fellows said, that "This ruling stays, except that He
gave blood relatives more priority than the covenanted person." Ibn Hajar [155]
wrote that Al-Tabari narrated by way of Ali ibn Abi-Talha from Ibn Abbas
(RA) that he said, "A man would covenant another man that when he dies he
inherits from him, then God, may He be glorified and prominent, revealed
"... and blood relatives are more entitled to each other in the Book of God than
believers (at large) and migrants unless you do for your covenanted people a virtue

' [33:6], that is to bequeath to your charges whom you covenanted." We say
that this means that the mutual fraternity inheritance was a decision made
by them, not by God or His Messenger, and that the verse in Chapter 4 was
revealed to correct it, and attesting to that is what Al-Tabari reported.

Summary |; Sourcing chain is connected, but the scholars did not agree

that the text asserts abrogation per the Abrogation Doctrine.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

[Narration # 48] Narrator: Ikrima, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

Gea g0

ol oF gba Ke 3 Ge St g 3 al G2 get Y ye i ss Ys

i a

as

<

eed liege ig i2rT aaa utes ial saat 3 >
OB GAS Gol dp oleh Sy enV al
[ve : JUS «ans Dyl bas icSN Jj)

Translation:
Narrated Ahmad ibn Muhammad from Ali ibn Al-Hussein from his father from
Yazid Al-Nahwi from Ikrima from Ibn Abbas (ra) that the verse, "Verily, those
who have believed and migrated ... and those who have believed and did not
migrate ..." [8:72], meant that the Bedouin does not inherit from the migrant
nor the migrant from him. Then it was abrogated by, "... and blood relatives
are more entitled to each other ..." [8:75]74

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Abu-Dawoud [3] who did not rate it. Al-Arnaoot rated it "sound."
As mentioned at the top, the scholars have dismissed Ali ibn Al-Hussein. As
for Ahmad ibn Muhammad, he is Ibn Thabet.

Abrogation validation:
The forbiddance, in the verse in Chapter 8, of befriending those who did not
migrate (from Mecca to Medina) does not require depriving them of inheri-
tance, and we do not know that the Prophet (PBUH) explicitly forbade it.

Summary |} The sourcing chain has a dismissed narrator, and the text

indicates abrogation.

Note: Research showed that this narration was not explicitly authenti-
cated by anyone, but we followed the narration encyclopedia's conclusionary
rating of the narration being authentic to be on the safe side.

[Narration # 49] Narrator: Not mentioned, originator: Not mentioned

Arabic teat:

US feed Go etary Spy SUP Sp Gla Sy Gri is

24Tdentical words appear in verse 33:6, but the text of the narration in Abu-Dawoud [3]
identifies verse 8:75.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Translation:
The migrant used to inherit from the Medinite whose kin and blood relatives
did not, until that was abrogated.

Sourcing validation:
Shaker [196] attributed this sourcing to Ibn Abbas (RA) without a sourcing
chain or authentication, so he may have extracted the text from the preceding
narrations.

Abrogation validation:

In his exegesis referenced above, Shaker said, "Meaning that kin are more enti-
tled to inheritance than the migrants and Medinites, and this is abrogating of
what has been before of inheriting by alliance and fraternity that was between
them." Then he mentioned what Al-Tabari said that there is no abrogation,
substantiated by the words of God, may He be exalted, "... unless you do your
charges a virtue ..." [33:6], which he interpreted to mean: Unless you bequeath
to your charges whom you covenanted.

Summary |: Sourcing is not mentioned, and the scholars did not agree

that the text refers to abrogation per the Abrogation Doctrine.

13. On abrogating verse 4:93 and verse 25:68

Ubiquity verification: Yes for verse 4:93. Narrations about its abroga-
tion were sourced through three different narrators: Ibn Jubair, Ibn
Abil-Jaad, and Ibn Dinar, and all of those narrations reject the abro-
gation claim. As for verse 25:68, narrations about its abrogation all
come through Ibn Jubair only, so there is no ubiquity.

[Narration # 50] Narrator: Ibn Jubair originator: Ibn Abbas (Ra)
Arabic teat:

rile IB HG ye WG GB 8 od ek dee dL
[VA : 15 all] . GAL YY AI 5S lh EN G lB YG.

°

ol hu WGA ER ole sid ole gt

LS wl ot) le GIS shes JUS
eee ee

Translation:
Narrated from Ibrahim ibn Musa from Hisham ibn Yousuf that Ibn Juraij told

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

them that Al-Qasem ibn Abi-Bazza told him that he asked Said Ibn Jubair:
Is there for one who killed a believer intentionally a repentance? I recited, "
and do not kill the soul that God sanctioned except by right ..." [25:68], Then
Said said: I recited it to Ibn Abbas (RA) as you recited it to me and he said,
"This is Meccan and it was abrogated by a Medinite verse, the one in Chapter
AY

Sourcing validation:

Authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35].

Abrogation validation:
The text states that verse 25:68 was abrogated by the verse in Chapter 4.

Summary | Sourcing chain is connected, and the text supports abroga-

tion of verse 25:68.

Note: He did not name the Chapter 4 verse but the other narrations
that follow clearly indicate that it is verse 4:93.

[Narration # 51] Narrator: Ibn Jubair, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

po Nel ae ere eer eee eee 5 «alas
BHI 3b ll EN ole ale L3ls 16 AY 26 C5 ys hs EB 5 cll

a

(BUA eH pl A Vy STG hl 5,25 Y Sass
[VA: Ol aS]

da AF Gikcd EX El ode 0b a oT
[ay cLusdl] DE ree O5\5S hake Eade MRS 525
oil 3 J HM oda ade E515 tel ofl Bly Sy

[Vs Ball] €... OE ys J

\w—

Translation:
Narrated Abdullah ibn Hashem and Abdul-Rahman ibn Bishr Al-Abdi that
Yahya (ibn Said Al-Qattan) narrated from Ibn Juraij from Al-Qasem ibn Abi-
Bazza from Said Ibn Jubair that he asked Ibn Abbas (ra): Is there repentance
for one who killed a believer intentionally? He said: No. So, I recited to him
the verse in Chapter 25, "And those who do not call with God another deity
and do not kill the soul which God has sanctioned except by right ..." [25:68] till

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

its end. He said: This is a Meccan verse abrogated by this Medinite verse,
"And whoever kills a believer intentionally, his recompense is Gehenna, staying
perpetually ..." [4:93]. In the narration by Ibn Hashem, [he added] so I recited
to him this (other) verse in Chapter 25, "Except him who repented ..." [25:70]

Sourcing validation:
Authenticated by Muslim [189].

Abrogation validation:
The text indicates that verse 25:68 was abrogated by verse 4:93.

Summary |: Sourcing chain is connected, and the text states abrogation.

[Narration # 52] Narrator: Ibn Jubair originator: Tbn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

AY SB Sh 5 cys Masia aa Gage YS aya) fe ple op Eds :du ce cp Are ye ci

OB il 3 ll UM ale Bly

Go BU YY 4 G55 It EN 5 LE Ny 52 at a OEY Guilly
[VA: Ol aS]

Bla AF kod ES Uf oie 2b
[av elustl] & ... ates mee 8515S ak petcy ia Lage Rio 525 }

Translation:

Narrated Amr ibn Ali that Yahya narrated from Ibn Juraij from Al-Qasem
ibn Abi-Bazza from Said Ibn Jubair that he asked Ibn Abbas (Ra): Is there for
one who killed a believer intentionally a repentance? He said: No. I recited to
him the verse in Chapter 25, "And those who do not call with God another deity
and do not kill the soul which God has sanctioned, except by right ..." [25:68].
He said: This is a Meccan verse abrogated by a Medinite verse, "And whoever
kills a believer intentionally, his recompense is Gehenna ..." [4:93]

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Al-Nasai [73] who rated it authentic.

Abrogation validation:
The text indicates the abrogation of verse 25:68 by verse 4:93.

Summary | Sourcing chain is connected, and the text indicated abroga-
tion of verse 25:68.

Note: The narration encyclopedia mentions that Al-Albani authenti-

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

cated this narration, but we did not find his authentication of this particular
narration. He did authenticate other narrations as will be shown later.

[Narration # 53] Narrator: Ibn Jubair originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

4) JB 2S Gy dnt Cree : JB gland | ote Ute Nn Ula ll ll » aol Wie

fr

LUN oda CSS Us gis gis yy ot! les E15 BSN 'al ged Cale

[avs Ll] of ... 295 mee 855 ES ak age (his 525 }
tt Vea i lay (SG Le JST gs

Translation:
Narrated Adam ibn Abi-Iyas from Shueba from Mugheera ibn Al-Numan that
he said: I heard Said Ibn Jubair say: The people of Kufa differed about a verse,
so I traveled for it to Ibn Abbas (RA) and asked him about it. He said: This
verse, "And whoever kills a believer intentionally, his recompense is Gehenna ..."
[4:93] is the last of what was revealed, and nothing abrogated it.

Sourcing validation:

Authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35].

Abrogation validation:
The text asserts the rejection of abrogation.

Summary |: Sourcing chain is connected, and the text asserts rejection of

abrogation of verse 4:93.

[Narration # 54] Narrator: ibnjabeer, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:
cp amet oF Gland) oy Sadell ye dnd Le cof We ces pinll Slee oy AU Ge Le
a obs 3 BS Ri Je sh
[ar : lial] { ... gS 51555 loads Uebe (ES 25
Bt si ls bdgl sot Up ag : Jus ge is, Fe ol 3) Cbs
Cie crea spall Gy by au glue Dee onl Gy

Translation:
Narrated Ubaidullah ibn Muaazh Al-Anbari from his father from Shueba from

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Al-Mugheera ibn Al-Numan from Said Ibn Jubair that he said: The people
of Kufa differed on this verse, "And whoever kills a believer intentionally, his
recompense is Gehenna ..." [4:93], so I traveled to Ibn Abbas (Ra) and asked
him about it. He said: It was revealed last in what was revealed, then nothing
abrogated it. In the narration of Ibn Jaafar: It was revealed in what was
revealed last. In the narration of Al-Nadhr: It is among what was revealed
last.

Sourcing validation:
Authenticated by Muslim [189].

Abrogation validation:
The text asserts the rejection of abrogation.

Summary |: Sourcing chain is connected, and the text asserts rejection of

abrogation of verse 4:93.

[Narration # 55] Narrator: Ibn Jubair originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

Ze

[ay : clLisll] { ... inde Lebs [kis 32g }
Sect Gach le 3G

Translation:
Narrated Ahmad ibn Hanbal from Abdul-Rahman from Sufyan from Al-
Mugheera ibn Al-Numan from Said Ibn Jubair from Ibn Abbas (RA) that he
said about the verse, "And whoever kills a believer intentionally ...', that nothing
abrogated it.

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Abu-Dawoud [3] who did not rate it. His book's verifier, Al-
Arnaoot, authenticated it and added the helpful information that Sufyan is
Ibn Said Al-Thawri and that Abdul-Rahman is Ibn Mahdi. Al-Albani [12]
said: "Authentic: Kh", Kh being an abbreviation of Al-Bukhari.

Abrogation validation:
The text rejects abrogation.

Summary |: Sourcing chain is connected, and the text rejects abrogation

of verse 4:93.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

[Narration # 56] Narrator: Ibn Abil-Jaad, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

JIB Neat Sey fd Mey Gail Ske stl ey SI eke Gul ye teal

{ idee Uldc a Sel, aid, ade dtl Cae, Ys IDS dige S5ljocd
[ay : clus]

yi bey Gleny sale SU) chee alll See Gad Gr Et CL Up pl 3g Syl ad - Je
SB chaal pF Elle fasy ly OS) Coll Sb ploy ale AU) Le alll Ups der tory
cds Bish CAB dle Janey daly Waly olay gh aren A LET dnlall yp $n)
18 pd She Jo Sy ha pal Js
Translation:

Narrated Muhammad ibn Jaafar from Shueba from Yahya ibn Al-Mujabber
Al-Tamimi from Salem ibn Abil-Jaad from Ibn Abbas (Ra) that a man came
to him and said: How do you see a man who killed a man intentionally. He
replied, "... so his recompense is Gehenna, staying perpetually therein, and God
is angry with him, cursed him, and prepared for him a grand torment." [4:93]. He
explained further, "It was revealed among the last verses revealed and nothing
abrogated it until the Messenger of God was deceased, and there has not been
any revelation after him." He argued with him, saying, "What if he repented,
had faith and worked a good deed and then found guidance?" He replied,
"Far for him is repentance! I heard the Messenger of God (PBUH) say: May his
mother lose him to death, he who killed a man intentionally. He (the victim)
comes on the Day of Resurrection, grabbing his killer by his right hand or left
hand and holding his head by his right or left hand, his body pouring blood,
in front of the Throne, asking: O Lord, ask your worshiper for what did he

kill me?"

Sourcing validation:

Reported by Ahmad in his compilation book, Al-Musnad (Shaker [197]). The
verifier of his book, Ahmad Shaker said, "Its sourcing is authentic. Yahya
ibn Al-Mujabber is Yahya ibn Abdullah ibn Al-Harth Al-Mujabber. Ahmad
said about him: he is not bad. Ibn Mueen and AI-Nasai said he was weak.
For me, he is trustworthy as Shueba narrated from him and Al-Bukhari had
a biography of him in his narrator appraisal book "Al-Kabeer", and did not
mention any criticism of him and did not include him among the weak."

Abrogation validation:
The text asserts no abrogation.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Summary | Sourcing chain is connected, and the text asserts no abro-
gation of verse 4:93.

[Narration # 57] Narrator: Ibn Abil-Jaad, originator: Ibn Abbas (Ra)
Arabic teat:

de ple Syl of dell cal op pile ge Gaadll lee ye Whe JB ee oy dad Lol
Waugh gly robe byl SUES eaual pb SLe Clery Galy OU pb (Mane Ube JS cae
Sho Spi Veo ablagl LAL fh bere coi syd ploy ade alll gle Sts Cane

AgSecd Le pb al YG Ad Wy SU Sols Go Le

Translation:

Narrated Qutaiba ibn Said from Ammar Al-Duhni from Salem ibn Abil-Jaad
that Ibn Abbas (RA) was asked about one who killed a believer intentionally
and then repented, had faith, did righteous deeds, and then found guidance.
Ibn Abbas replied: And far from him is repentance! I heard your Prophet
(PBUH) saying: he comes clutching to the killer while his body pours blood,
saying: Ask this man, for what did he kill me? Then he said, by God, He
revealed it (the verse), then did not abrogate it.

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Al-Nasai [73] who rated it authentic. Al-Albani [14] also authen-
ticated it.

Abrogation validation:
The text emphasizes rejection of abrogation.

Summary | Sourcing chain is connected, and the text emphasizes no
abrogation of verse 4:93.

Note: The narrator did not name the verse claimed abrogated, but the
other narrations make it clear that it is verse 4:93.

[Narration # 58] Narrator: Ibn Jubair, originator: Tbn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

cp dene yf Olas oy Spiel Ge dad Woe caybd Gy WE We hee oy ail Bl
AN ode (3 5S Jal abet) JB ee

[av : sll] { ... ade Lobe [ki 525

SS A See Me ye ol Bees

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Translation:
Narrated Azhar ibn Jameel from Khalid ibn Al-Harith from Shueba from Al-
Mugheera ibn Al-Numan from Said Ibn Jubair that he said: People of Kufa
differed in regard to this verse, "And whoever kills a believer intentionally ..."
[4:93], so I traveled to Ibn Abbas (RA) and asked him. He answered: It was
revealed among what was revealed last, and nothing abrogated it.

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Al-Nasai [73] who rated it authentic. Al-Albani [14] also authen-
ticated it.

Abrogation validation:
The text rejects abrogation.

Summary |: Sourcing chain is connected, and the text rejects abrogation

of verse 4:93.

[Narration # 59] Narrator: Ibn Abil-Jaad, originator: Ibn Abbas (Ra)
Arabic text:

Blbes aes Sly OU ab Vane Cage Ls oho ole Sol et SB tel ol op lle oe
Jol) bone yi play ale Mr Le Shs Cage gh T Gy day JE esaal
'Ley Se) Ugly ab aly Gos gh Lin Lo Sy rly gole ily Gece LaLa by Jail

Ugh eoe Yan LS @SSs le

Translation:

Narrated Salem ibn Abil-Jaad that Ibn Abbas (RA) was asked regarding one
who killed a believer intentionally and then repented, had faith, did righteous
deeds, and then found guidance. He replied, "Woe unto him! How far from
him is guidance? I heard your Prophet (PBUH): The killer and the killed come
on the Day of Resurrection with him clutched by his fellow, saying: Lord, ask
this one why he killed me. By God, may He be glorified and prominent, He
sent it down upon your Prophet and then He never abrogated it after He sent
it down."

Sourcing validation:
Authenticated by Al-Albani [15] and he pointed to his other book (Al-Albani
[10]) where he rated a similar version "sound" and then took that back and
said: Rather, it is authentic and mentioned its other sourcing paths. See also
narration number 57 which lists the complete sourcing chain with a similar
text.

Abrogation validation:
The text asserts rejection of abrogation.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Summary |: Sourcing chain is connected, and the text asserts rejection of
abrogation of verse 4:93.

[Narration # 60] Narrator: Salem, likely Ibn Abil-Jaad, originator: Ibn Ab-
bas (RA)

Arabic text:

Chey «ly OU ood Liege I JES Ge lle Sol Jet plle ye ober oe olde We
yds lng sole AW) chee SEE Leen Msagl oS Shy BEG :SB csrial gb Bde
he Hey Fe WU Ulla ally Cs a he Jo 5 ve cpl Ea Jyatll 2 oes

Ge

Iesagll ab oly Ally rtd clghal Bf Sap tps Ley calny ale AU) Le Si

Translation:

Narrated Sufyan from Ammar from Salem that Ibn Abbas (RA) was asked
about a man who killed a believer and then repented, had faith, worked good
deeds, and then found guidance. He answered, "Woe unto you! How far from
him is guidance? I heard your Prophet (PBUH) say: The murder victim comes
on the Day of Resurrection hanging on his killer, saying: O Lord, why did he
kill me? By God, God revealed it, may He be glorified and prominent, and
He never abrogated it after He revealed it. Woe unto you, how far from him
is guidance?!"

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Ahmad in his book Al-Musnad (Ibn Hanbal [160]). The verifier of
his book, Al-Arnaoot, authenticated it per the conditions of Muslim and said
that Ammar (Ibn Muawiya Al-Duhni) is one of the narrators Muslim trusted,
and the rest of the narrators are men trusted by the two elders. He added
that Salem is Ibn Abil-Jaad Al-Ghatfani Al-Ashjaai.

Abrogation validation:

The text asserts rejection of abrogation. Al-Arnaoot, who verified the book
referenced above, mentioned the comment by Al-Sindi on the rejection of ab-
rogation, "And that was his belief, may God have been pleased with him, but
the people of knowledge after him did not agree with him on that. Rather,
they said that verses like it should be limited after repentance, by the neces-
sity of [the fact] that repentance from shirk is beneficial, so what about other
(sins)? The people of Sunna said, 'The meaning of recompense is that he
deserves that if he died without repentance, and he may be pardoned without
repentance for what God said, "Verily, God does not forgive that [other deities]
be associated with Him" [4:48].' God knows best."

Summary |: Sourcing chain is connected, and the text emphasizes rejec-

tion of abrogation of verse 4:93.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Note: The sentence "Woe unto you! How far from him is guidance?" is
repeated in this version of the narration as it appears in the above reference,
so we copied that though the second mention of the sentence may have been
a printing error.

[Narration # 61] Narrator: Ibn Abil-Jaad, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

"J ¢ Niza 2 Shey a ey & Ei ie cols! as, 'I hse Seeded J

be tise J sel, 15 ah ais) Cady Led IDE GS Sh ljee —
fay: sLisSt]

by play ale) she all Jy Gad ao tpt GA Lp Lal gp cil aw J

2 Sule hoes aah 6 8 Ei JB cry te A he a Jon Sos 235

Sy ah EASE ye hey ale WU Le alll Dye nee by cdg by 2B Ses
lady sf caren aah WaT colag gh caren abi MAT dslall by boo lds! SIL,

$l pb Se jb cy dp call JS 3 les ad\4\ ¢ ts

Translation:

Narrated Muhammad ibn Jaafar from Shueba from Yahya ibn Al-Mujabbir Al-
Taymi from Salem ibn Abil-Jaad from Ibn Abbas (RA) that a man came to him
and said: How do you see a man who killed a man intentionally? He replied,
"... so his recompense is Gehenna, staying perpetually therein, and God is angry
with him, cursed him, and prepared for him a grand torment." [4:93]. He added,
"Tt was revealed among the verses revealed last, and nothing abrogated it until
the Messenger of God was deceased, and there was no revelation after him." He
argued, "What if he repented, had faith, worked good deeds and was guided?"
He replied, "How far for him is repentance! I heard the Messenger of God
(PBUH) say: May his mother lose him to death who killed a man intentionally!
He (the victim) comes on the Day of Resurrection, grabbing his killer by his
right hand or left hand and holding his head by his right or left hand, his body
pouring blood, in front of the Throne, asking: O Lord, ask your worshiper for
what did he kill me?"

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Ahmad in his book Al-Musnad (Ibn Hanbal [160]). The verifier
of his book, Al-Arnaoot, said: "An authentic narration, its sourcing chain of
narrators has trustworthy narrators who are men trusted by the two elders,
except Yahya ibn Al-Mujabbir, who is Yahya ibn Abdullah ibn Al-Harith AI-
Kufi, judged weak by Ibn Abi-Hatem, Ibn Mueen, and Al-Nasai, but Ahmad

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

and Ibn Udayy said there was nothing bad about him. Al-Daraqutni said he
could be considered." We found the sourcing chain in the reporting book like
this: Narrated Muhammad ibn Jaafar and Rawh from Shueba from Muslim
Al-Qurri. This is a more complete sourcing than what was documented in the
narration encyclopedia, and it is the one we listed above. See also preceding
narration number 56.

Abrogation validation:
The text asserts no abrogation.

Summary |: Sourcing chain is connected, and the text asserts rejection of

abrogation of verse 4:93.

[Narration # 62] Narrator: Not mentioned, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

Eph SUB ccsstaal ob Eble aby Galy OU ob Midas Cage JS he Jet all ole onl oe
SAS play Wet tod ya play ale A Le Sis Lage chat d Sy orl
Ug Fac be od AU Ugh ag) ably 2 SB pb AB Gab Min ho Sy ish sped Uo ab lagi

Translation:
Ibn Abbas (RA) was asked about one who killed a believer intentionally and then
repented, had faith, did good deeds, and then found guidance. He answered,
"How far from him is repentance! I heard your Prophet (PBUH) say: (The
victim) comes on the Day of Judgment hanging on his killer and his body is
pouring blood, saying: O Lord, ask this one for what did he kill me?" He
added, "By God, He sent it down and never abrogated it."

Sourcing validation:
Ibn Al-Wazir [152] mentioned it, and the verifier of his book, Al-Arnaoot, said
that Ahmad, Al-Tirmizi, Al-Nasai, Ibn Majah, and Al-Tabari reported it and
attributed it to Ibn Abbas (RA).

Abrogation validation:
The text emphasizes rejection of abrogation. However, verifier Al-Arnaoot
mentioned that a number of scholars differed with Ibn Abbas on this opinion
of his, see the reporting book above (Ibn Al-Wazir [152]). They offered several
arguments and also argued that a generality does not abrogate a specificity; the
Chapter 4 verse is general while the Chapter 25 verse is specific. Al-Arnaoot
commented on that argument, saying that a generality states the ruling for
those not covered by the specificity, and that is not called abrogation but rather
a second ruling covering a different group, namely, those who kill a believer
intentionally. As for the verse in Chapter 25, it has generalized the ruling for
killing a soul. Al-Albani [10] said, "The consensus differs with him, and that
is the correct opinion in which there is no doubt. The Chapter 25 verse is

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

explicit about this, and the Chapter 4 verse does not contradict it because
this is about the penalty for the killer and the other is about his repentance."

Summary |; Sourcing chain is not connected, and the text emphasizes

rejection of abrogation.

[Narration # 63] Narrator: Ibn Jubair, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

SUE pie oy sleaes oe Glasall ay Gutell ge Wat Woe Seb thi LG py leew Ls.
ws Jy sid cls : Ja «wht gl ei 45 eds isi cop pl Js ea BSI 'al Cas |
Bugh GR

Translation:
Narrated Muhammad ibn Bashshar from Ghundar from Shueba from Al-
Mugheera ibn Al-Numan from Said Ibn Jubair that he said, "The people
of Kufa differed on [the ruling] of killing a believer, so I traveled for that to
Ibn Abbas (RA). He said: It was revealed among what was revealed last and
nothing abrogated it."

Sourcing validation:
Authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35].

Abrogation validation:
The text rejects abrogation.

Summary |: Sourcing chain is connected, and the text rejects abrogation
of verse 4:93.

Note: The narration does not name the verse, but the other narrations
indicate that the verse meant here is verse 4:93.

[Narration # 64] Narrator: Ibn Jubair, originator: Tbn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

io PSN Le Sil SB pe Cy dye oF ype oF Aad oF al pes olbe Woe
EN BB ge lB Gh Ul 3h caggl

[av : slLisll] { ... inde Lehe [hi 25
Oy Supt WAS Sul ks

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

SB fal 3 C1 Ju

Translation:
Narrated Abdan from his father from Shueba from Mansur from Said Ibn Jubair
who said, "Abdul-Rahman ibn Abza had me ask Ibn Abbas (RA) about these
two verses," "And whoever kills a believer intentionally ..." [4:93], he answered,
"Nothing abrogated it", and "And those who do not call with God another deity
" [25:68], he answered, "It was revealed about the people of shirk (associating
others with God in worship)"

Sourcing validation:
Authenticated by Al-Bukhari [35].

Abrogation validation:
The text rejects the abrogation of the Chapter 4 verse and shows no conflict
with the Chapter 25 verse. We noticed that the narration immediately pre-
ceding this one in Al-Bukhari [35] also states that the verse in Chapter 25 was
revealed regarding the people of shirk.

Summary |: Sourcing chain is connected, and the text rejects abrogation.

[Narration # 65] Narrator: Ibn Jubair, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

oe ana a es eae eee

ie eee anees oe
NN ode 5538 God J Jus ahs

BEA YIN 65S SN LES YG GAT ah 0 O25 Y Gaal >
[WA : Os 2S]

rien Ja 3 eh ae

Translation:
Narrated Muhammad ibn Al-Muthanna and Muhammad ibn Bashshar from
Muhammad ibn Jaafar from Shueba from Mansur from Said Ibn Jubair that
he said, "Abdul-Rahman ibn Abza had me ask Ibn Abbas (RA) about these two
verses," "And whoever kills a believer intentionally, his recompense is Gehenna,
staying perpetually therein ..." [4:93], so I asked him. He replied, "Nothing
abrogated it" and about this verse, "And those who do not call with God another
deity, and do not kill the soul which God sanctioned, except by right ..." [25:68],

All

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

he answered, "It was revealed about the people of shirk (associating others
with God in worship)."

Sourcing validation:
Authenticated by Muslim [189].

Abrogation validation:
The text rejects the abrogation of verse 4:93 and shows no conflict with verse
25:68.

Summary |: Sourcing chain is connected, and the text rejects abrogation.

Note: The narration encyclopedia attributes this narration to Al-Bukhari
and Muslim, but we didn't find it in Al-Bukhari's book. However, Al-Bukhari
reported two similarly worded narrations.

[Narration # 66] Narrator: Not mentioned, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

: Sls ¢ lao "hace Cage ib Jy od GEL ple Gy all Lek :tsl5 Ye, ab

be tise J ich, Maly ale abl Comes aed IDE EGS O52 .}

[ay : slg]

Sctgly Sel DSi, ai ass sks bn) DB Sissel GF Le acy OU Eda 3b
(Nae cafe (Bib dal Als ois play ale he 9S Lge ad low cond esl
ots AGB Ab pee Be IS od Blo CAs lets sl ane SST ola by ele
AN ole CIS ad tote al ne adi olll hy Soles aa Wa Jo Sy be ce eV
Qs ot ae Ip ly ple ale ON Le Shs ed & a ys ee Ls

Translation:
A man came to him and said, "O Abdullah ibn Abbas, what do you see in
a man who killed a believer intentionally? He replied, "... so his recompense

is Gehenna, staying perpetually therein, and God is angry with him, has cursed
him, and prepared for him a grand torment." [4:93]. He argued, "What about
if he repented, did good deeds, and then found guidance?" Ibn Abbas (RA)
replied, "May his mother lose him to death; how far for him are repentance
and guidance! By Him in whose hand is my soul, I heard your Prophet (PBUH)
say: May his mother lose him to death, a killer of a believer intentionally.
He (the victim) comes on the Day of Resurrection, taking him by his right
or left hand, his body pouring blood in front of the Throne of the Beneficent
One, pointing to his killer with his other hand, saying: O Lord, ask this one
for what did he kill me? I swear by Him in whose hand is the soul of the
worshiper of God that this verse was revealed and was not abrogated by any

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

verse until your Prophet (PBUH) was deceased and no proof (to the contrary)
was revealed after it."

Sourcing validation:
Shaker [196] mentioned it, and said in the footnotes that Al-Tabari narrated
it with an authentic sourcing chain.

Abrogation validation:
The text emphatically rejects abrogation.

Summary |: Sourcing chain is connected in Al-Tabari's narration, and the

text emphatically rejects abrogation of verse 4:93.

[Narration # 67] Narrator: Amr, likely Ibn Dinar, originator: Ibn Abbas
(RA)

Arabic text:

he onl oF ape oe old se :du ohgce on OLS Woe : Jb cael cy hemes Wt
cone od Athy cAnol ELA fy fll Syatall Sco i SB ploy ade alll be call ye
Al ts ony Ny Fda SB call ye cane i gs 2,k : Spits lao tabs Ab layly
:4N| oda G3

[avs Lil] f ... take Eade |b 325

wo

Wal Sly 55 ie Cad s Ju

Translation:

Narrated Muhammad ibn Rafie from Shababa ibn Sawwar from Warqaa from
Amr from Ibn Abbas (RA) from the Prophet (PBUH) that he said, "The murder
victim comes on the Day of Resurrection with his killer, his forehead and head
in his hand, and his body pouring blood, saying: O Lord, he killed me. Until
he brings him closer to the Throne." They mentioned to Ibn Abbas (RA) the
(question of) repentance, and he recited this verse, "And whoever kills a believer
intentionally ..." [4:93] and said, "It was never abrogated since it was revealed,
and how far for him is repentance!"

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Al-Nasai [73] who rated it authentic. Al-Albani [14] also rated it
authentic, and referred to his other book, Al-Albani [10], as mentioned before.
Also reported by Al-Wadei [115], who said it was authentic per the conditions
of the two elders.

Abrogation validation:
The text asserts rejection of abrogation.

Summary |: Sourcing chain is connected, and the text asserts rejection of

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

abrogation of verse 4:93.

Note: There are two authentic sourcing chains by way of Amr in the
references of the sourcing validation.

[Narration # 68] Narrator: Ibn Jubair, originator: Tbn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

CoM dl oe le Gl Stal ol fl dy ams
[Av : LI] {anger ofl jad Lrears Linge Jade yey
BV ode oy Bt GACY ob Sle ds

{EL YA > gl nell ogee Vy STU al as oe Y polly
[VW : Os aS]

Sd fl 3 EG sdb

Translation:

Narrated Muhammad ibn Al-Muthanna from Shueba from Mansur from Said
Ibn Jubair that he said, "Abdul-Rahman ibn Abza had me ask Ibn Abbas
(RA) about these two verses," "And whoever kills a believer intentionally, his
recompense is Gehenna ..." [4:93], so I asked him. He answered, "Nothing
abrogated it". And about this verse, "And those who do not call with God
another deity, and do not kill the soul which God sanctioned, except by right ..."
[25:68]. He said, "It was revealed about the people of shirk (associating others
with God in worship)."

Sourcing validation:
Authenticated by Muslim [189]. Al-Albani [14] said it was "Authentic: Kh",
where "Kh" means Al-Bukhari.

Abrogation validation:
The text rejects the abrogation of the Chapter 4 verse and shows no conflict
with the Chapter 25 verse.

Summary |: Sourcing chain is connected, and the text rejects abrogation.

Note 1: The narration encyclopedia attributes this sourcing to Al-
Bukhari and Muslim but we did not find it in Al-Bukhari's book. However,
Al-Bukhari reported similar wording from Abdan and Ibn Bashshar.

Note 2: In the two narrations reported by Al-Albani [14], he said that
the requester's name was Abdul-Rahman ibn Abi-Layla, not Ibn Abza.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

[Narration # 69] Narrator: Amr ibn Dinar, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

Aahy aol eleall fy LIL Syetall $ oe 2B ploy ade all che call Ge ole ol
Se AVS IB pall | Gl & le Mia Sb Spi eo L423 Ablagly ody
aN| | oda Yb 4,3

-

[ars Lisl] {EGS 251555 licaks ee JB 25
Ail I Shy eI Vy AN) ole CALS L Ji

Translation:

Narrated Muhammad ibn Al-Hasan Al-Zaafarani from Shababa from Warqaa
ibn Umar from Amr ibn Dinar from Ibn Abbas (RA) from the Prophet (PBUH)
that he said, "The murder victim comes on the Day of Resurrection with the
killer's forehead and head in his hand, with his body pouring blood saying:
O Lord, this one killed me, until he brings it close to the Throne." They
mentioned to Ibn Abbas (RA) the [question about] repentance, and he recited
this verse, "And whoever kills a believer intentionally, his recompense is Gehenna
..." [4:93] then he said, "This verse was not abrogated nor substituted. And
how far for him is repentance!"

Sourcing validation:
Authenticated by Al-Albani [13] who pointed to two books, Al-Mishkah (3465)
and Al-Taaliq Al-Ragheeb (3/203), and said "Abu-Eesa (Al-Tirmizi) said this
is a sound narration."

Abrogation validation:
The text asserts rejection of abrogation.

Summary |: Sourcing chain is connected, and the text asserts rejection of

abrogation of verse 4:93.

[Narration # 70] Narrator: Amr ibn Dinar, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

Led on BU Jo Sete FS be onl oF De? on are OF pe oy sly Wie LS JE
ANI oa 3S (a5I ule ol sds : Sb

[av : Lidl] € .. Ngoc nde [ha ie

gl 4 Aly get Ny ANI oda eas lag : Jb

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Translation:
Narrated Shababa from Warqaa ibn Umar from Amr ibn Dinar from Ibn Abbas
(RA) in an inquiry about whether the murderer may repent, so they mentioned
repentance to Ibn Abbas (RA) and he recited this verse, "And whoever kills a be-
liever intentionally ..." [4:93] then he said, "And this verse was not abrogated
nor substituted. And how far for him is repentance!"

Sourcing validation:
Al-Albani [10] said: Authentic per the condition of the two elders.

Abrogation validation:
The text emphasizes no abrogation.

Summary |; Sourcing chain is connected, and the text emphasizes no
abrogation of verse 4:93.

14. On abrogating verses 5:2 and 5:42

Ubiquity verification: No. Only two independent narrations by Mu-
jahid and Ikrima, one short of the minimum requirement of three.

[Narration # 71] Narrator: Mujahid, originator: Tbn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

onl oF Beles oF oF pSodll ys ole le JW Olas oy dew Lite JB sl aes
sey Je bay wa! AT sole! lal) oe Bed JB ple

[ot : 5G] { ... age eas eos pal Iysle Ob ..

A) rday ae eel eld oly pK> old o) EEA lay ale WW) he abil Jpn lS
[64 : SUN € ... sbslshl a35 V5 a iSiiepeciepe es oly

Ugh Las pie Soe oT pany gle A Le all Spey li

Translation:
Narrated Muhammad ibn Abdil-Malek from Ahmad ibn Muhammad ibn Ziyad
from Al-Hasan ibn Muhammad Al-Zaafarani from Said ibn Sulayman from
Mujahid from Ibn Abbas (ra) that he said, "Two verses in Chapter 5 were
abrogated: the verse of Al-Qalaid and His words, may He be glorified and

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

prominent, "... then if they come to you [, O Muhammad], judge between them
or turn aside from them ..." [5:42]; the Messenger of God (PBUH) was given
a choice to judge if he willed or turn aside and return them to their judges
and then [this verse] was revealed, "And judge between them by what God
revealed and do not follow their wishes ..." [5:49], so the Messenger of God
(PBUH) was commanded to judge between them by what is in our Book.'

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Ibn Abd-Albarr [140] who said, "Abu-Umar said this is some-
thing Sufyan ibn Hussein told and it is not strong, was differed on, and was
attributed to Mujahid. That is the correct sourcing, that it is something
Mujahid said, not Ibn Abbas."

Abrogation validation:
Ibn Abd-Albarr, in his book referenced above, mentioned the disagreements
between scholars about the abrogation conclusion, and he chose to reject ab-
rogation. He said, "The [right] perspective to me is the choice, so that a ruling
in the Book of God is not annulled without certainty. That is because His
words 'And judge between them" may be interpreted to mean 'if you judge'
The verse giving a choice is taut and is not subject to interpretations."

Summary |: In the sourcing chain is a narrator who is criticized, and the
scholars did not agree that the text indicated conventional abrogation.

Note: The narration mentions the Qalaid verse (5:2) but does not men-
tion what abrogated it.

[Narration # 72] Narrator: Ikrima, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

G3 g0

3 1 ug OF cagl OF cmd Ub ble Bs ctsjipall ose Gee Fes) ae
JG cle ot! oF 2 aXe

aie 3

[ee : 3S] e eee eel5 \ eee eos eas Ize we ties ®

x of

[tA ssl] { ... ABI ISI Ly oaks peas ...

Translation:
Narrated Ahmad ibn Muhammad Al-Marwazi from Ali ibn Al-Hussein from
his father from Yazid Al-Nahwi from Ikrima from Ibn Abbas (Ra) in reference
to the verse, "... then if they come to you [,O Muhammad], judge between them
or turn aside from them ..." [5:42], that it was abrogated when He said, "... then
judge between them by what God has revealed ..." [5:48]

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Abu-Dawoud [3] who did not rate it. The verifier of his book, Al-
Arnaoot, authenticated it then wrote: This is a sound sourcing.?° Al-Albani
[12] rated it 'sound'

Abrogation validation:

In his verification book referenced above, Al-Arnaoot listed that Al-Hasan,
Al-Nakhei, Al-Zuhri, Ibn Hanbal, Ataa ibn Abi-Rabah, Malek, Qatada, Said
Ibn Jubair, and Al-Tabari all rejected the abrogation, and he agreed with
them, saying "This is the correct conclusion because there is no conflict be-
tween the two verses for one of them gave a choice between judging and leaving
it out and the other explained how to judge if he chose to judge." He listed
what Al-Tabari wrote, that there was no abrogation because there was no
conflict and because there was no authentic report to the contrary from the
Prophet (PBUH).

Summary |: In the sourcing chain is a dismissed narrator, and the con-

sensus of the scholars is to reject abrogation.

[Narration # 73] Narrator: Mujahid, it originator: Ibn Abbas (Ra)
Arabic text:

ccgeelyl glade Gy dew Lie Jb sLeldl dau yledd oy locke oy emer Le
gal SB obe opl ge tales ye Sed Ge Gee ot Olde Ge alll Gy ole We
SBASLaS! Byun (es CByp dl ode oe Led

[os 3.5] @... agi bls ae ES ESS AGE SG...

esis bree oe ola Oly (mei oe ola BS) ape Ae ade il we alll es) Ss

[8:58 € ... cbz15Bl as Vy il Sh Bs 22S ly
lS ge eid pod Ui gle ste WN Le at Jy ib Jt

Translation:
Narrated Muhammad ibn Sulayman Al-Wasety Al-Baghundy from Said ibn
Sulayman Al-Wasety from Ubad ibn Al-Awwam from Sufyan ibn Hussein from
Al-Hakam from Mujahid from Ibn Abbas (Ra) that he said, "Iwo verses in this
Chapter, meaning Chapter 5, were abrogated, "... then if they come to you,
judge between them or turn aside from them ..." [5:42], then [this verse] was

25 Al-Arnaoot stated that the narration is authentic, then stated that it is (only) 'sound',
without commenting on the reason for providing two different ratings.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

revealed, "And judge between them by what God has sent down, and do not
follow their wishes ..." [5:49]. He said, "Thus, He ordered the Messenger of
God (PBUH) to judge between them according to our Book."

Sourcing validation:
Al-Tahawi [108] reported it, and the verifier of his book, Al-Arnaoot, said
about its sourcing chain that its men are trustworthy men trusted by the two
elders, except Sufyan ibn Hussein who is trusted by Muslim and others except
Al-Zuhri.

Abrogation validation:

The author of the book referenced above wrote, "It is taut (not abrogated).
The leader and his lieutenants in ruling have the choice if they (non-Muslims)
ask them for adjudication. They can agree and judge between them, or they
may turn aside. This has been reported by Al-Hasan, Al-Shaabi, Al-Nakhei,
Al-Zuhri, and Ibn Hanbal. It is the correct finding because there is no conflict
between the two verses because giving him (the Prophet (PBUH)) the choice
between judging between them in the dispute they levied or turning aside
from it and not judging, is not contradicted by the requirement that, if he
chooses to judge, to do so by what God revealed. In fact, it clarifies it and
verifies it. With this logic, Ataa ibn Abi-Rabah, Qatada, Said Ibn Jubair,
Abu-Jaafar Al-Tabari, and Makki ibn Abi-Talib all ruled this way because
there is no conflict between the two verses and because there is no authentic
report attributed to the Messenger of God (PBUH) and there was no unanimity
among the scholars."

Summary |: Sourcing chain is connected, and the consensus rejects abro-

gation.

Note: The narration mentions two abrogated verses but names only one.
The other narration shows that the second one is the Qalaid verse (5:2).

[Narration # 74] Narrator: Not mentioned, originator: Tbn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

sls By ww Af glad byl ole ye CAs SB Hbe op! ye
(er: sll {AE EL Gl Ges AAS aye OG. }
BY aba pee Goel Le oly tie ASH ALE of Whee ley ale WW Le ath Joy tS
S33 gel

[64 :s.8Ull] ¢ ... 20 jah Le es | oly ®

LS J bas ptis Sons of peg ale AU Le tt Syn il

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Translation:
Ibn Abbas (RA) said that two verses from this Chapter (Chapter 5) were abro-
gated; the Qalaid verse (5:2) and, ".. then if they come to you, judge between
them or turn aside from them ..." [5:42]. So, the Messenger of God (PBUH) had
a choice: If he willed, he could judge between them, or if he willed, he could
turn aside from them and turn them back to their judges. Then was revealed,
"And judge between them by what God has revealed ..." [5:49], thus He ordered
the Messenger of God (PBUH) to judge between them by what is in our Book.

Sourcing validation:
Mentioned by Al-Zahiri [122] who used it as evidence and said in the introduc-
tion of his book that he did not use for evidence except an authentic, sourced
report narrated by the trustworthy (Al-Zahiri [122]).

Abrogation validation:
The author of the book referenced above, who rejects the abrogation claim,
mentioned Abu-Hanifa's edict of referring the people of the Scripture to their
Book, and said that Malik ruled likewise, except if the people of the Scripture
asked for adjudication by Muslims, then it is the duty of the Muslim judge to
apply Islamic ruling to them.

Summary |: Sourcing chain is vacant, and the scholars did not agree that
the text indicates conventional abrogation.

15. On abrogating verse 5:106

Ubiquity verification: No. Only one narration.

[Narration # 75] Narrator: Abdullah ibn Ayyash, originator: Zayd ibn
Aslam

Arabic teat:
BMI oka 8 LA oy 45 oe ctle cp al he Seth ty onl Bel dy Lae
[wr sll] € .. S5ci 22555 ea eae >}
pre SH) 8 LU 5y ep Jal ye ed Sue Cady cas J ? ol U3 JB aM

Cell olSy cdg Slenely A ae aul ae 4 all) ors YI Gua us Gill Woe ce
Opolesdl Le foes «fail all cb py oy! Feed rad Beg oshles

Translation:
Narrated Yunus from Ibn Wahb from Abdullah ibn Ayyash from Zayd ibn

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Aslam, referring to this verse, "... a testimony among you when death has come
to one of you..." [5:106], that it was about a man who died and had no Muslims
around him. That was at the beginning of Islam when the status was of war
and people were infidels, except the Messenger of God (PBUH) and his fellows in
Medina, and people legated with a will of bequests, then wills were abrogated
and mandated shares were required, and Muslims carried that out.

Sourcing validation:
The commentator on the reporting book (Al-Tahawi [108]), Al-Arnaoot, wrote:
"The men of its sourcing chain are men trusted by the two elders, except
Abdullah ibn Ayyash, but Muslim reported from him, and he is among those
whose narrations he writes."

Abrogation validation:
The book's author, referenced above, wrote, "There is not until now what
necessitates the abrogation of this verse."

Summary | Sourcing chain is connected, but the scholars did not agree
that the text indicated abrogation.

Note: The mandated inheritance shares were revealed in Chapter 4,
which was revealed before Chapter 5.

16. On abrogating verse 6:121

Ubiquity verification: No. Only one narration.

[Narration # 76] Narrator: Ikrima, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

Gea 30 ° ae

Lebel US Be cael YF gd Yi ble he e's sil pe ACES are ay cites

were ie

[ty : pls € .. ade ail oo) S33 HCAS)
: Jl U3 fe 3 Baily Feet

se as)

&

(0:88 (08 Jo eattabs 25 Jo Custis, Va

Translation:
Narrated Ahmad ibn Muhammad ibn Thabet Al-Marwazi from Ali ibn Al-

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Hussein from his father from Yazid Al-Nahwi from Ikrima from Ibn Abbas
(RA) that he said about the verses, "So, eat from [meat] on which the Name of
God was mentioned (at slaughter time) ..." [6:118], and "And do not eat from
[meat] on which the name of God was not mentioned (at slaughter time) ..."
(6:121], that He (God) abrogated and excepted from that "... and the food of
the People of the Scripture is lawful to you and your food is lawful to them ..."
[5:5]

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Abu-Dawoud [3] who did not rate it. The verifier of his book,
Al-Arnaoot, rated it "sound" and likewise did Al-Albani [12].

Abrogation validation:

Al-Arnaoot mentioned in his verification referenced above what Al-Tabari said,
that both verses are taut (not abrogated) and that the meats slaughtered by
the people of the Scripture are immolate and are lawful to eat whether they
named God at the time of its slaughter or did not as long as it was not already
dead or was dedicated to false gods, and that he attributed that opinion to
the people of knowledge at large. We say that confirming that are the words
"abrogated and excepted" which indicate that what he meant by "abrogation"
(naskh) was exception and not annulment.

Summary |: In the sourcing chain is a dismissed narrator, and the scholars

did not agree that the text indicates conventional abrogation.

Note: Research showed that this narration was not explicitly authenti-
cated by anyone, but we followed the narration encyclopedia's conclusionary
rating of the narration being authentic to be on the safe side.

17. On abrogating verse 9:39

Ubiquity verification: No. Only one narration.

[Narration # 77] Narrator: Ikrima, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

Le Gopi Ug 82 al ed gs be Me loyal gos ys i
'36 pl ofl op aks

[ra dyell) {UI Gide 225555 13285

Gy

E

[Ve dgall] f ... Sacdl WAY GO

Nw

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

3 J

[V6 asgall € Qghths =P

gals J aAN gcd

[Vee : Agi] of ... SSK Ny pated Gell GE Leg

Translation:
Narrated Ahmad ibn Muhammad Al-Marwazi from Ali ibn Al-Hussein from
his father from Yazid Al-Nahwi from Ikrima from Ibn Abbas (RA), about the
verses, "If you do not rush (to the call to arms), He will torment you a painful

torment ..." [9:39], and ".. it is not for the people of Medina ... what they do."
(9:120-121], that they were abrogated by the verse that follows them, "And the
believers are not to rush (to the call to arms) altogether ..." [9:122]

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Abu-Dawoud [3] who did not rate it. Al-Arnaoot, the verifier of
his book, rated it "sound" and wrote that he did not see harm in narrations
by Ali ibn Al-Hussein. Al-Albani [12] also rated it "sound".

Abrogation validation:
Ibn Hajar [155] did not agree with the abrogation claim and he opined that
verse 9:122 was specifying verse 9:120, not abrogating it.

Summary |: In the sourcing chain, there is a criticized narrator, and the

scholars did not agree that the text indicates conventional abrogation.

Note: It seems that no one explicitly authenticated this narration, but
we followed the narration encyclopedia's conclusionary rating of the narration
being authentic to be on the safe side.

18. On abrogating verse 9:44

Ubiquity verification: No. Only one narration.

[Narration # 78] Narrator: Ikrima, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

Gea g0 Caras

Sse sug oF cae oF (ee on is ns ie cul ge doce oy ees jawee

[12 yell €.. SM ajay abl <bt spall duslezs Y

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

-°

sgl Bb al ad BA

C6 lll Cag aly LEAT Sash Gytab alll p
re
[Ws ll] € Ayo) bat -..

Translation:
Narrated Ahmad ibn Muhammad ibn Thabet Al-Marwazi from Ali ibn Al-
Hussein from his father from Yazid Al-Nahwi from Ikrima from Ibn Abbas
(RA) that the verse, "They do not ask your permission (to excuse them from
battle) who believe in God and the Final Day ..." [9:44], that it was abrogated
by the verse in Chapter 24, "Verily, the believers are those who have believed in
God and His Messenger ... Oft-Forgiving, Merciful." [24:62]

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Abu-Dawoud [3] who did not rate it. The verifier of his book,
Al-Arnaoot, rated it "sound" and likewise did Al-Albani [12].

Abrogation validation:
It seems to us that verse 24:62 is specifying of verse 9:44 in the accepted excuses
and is delegating to the Prophet (PBUH) of accepting the excuse or rejecting it.

Summary |: There is a criticized narrator in the sourcing chain, and

abrogation is mentioned in the text.

Note: Research showed that this narration was not explicitly authenti-
cated by anyone, but we followed the narration encyclopedia's conclusionary
rating of the narration being authentic to be on the safe side.

19. On abrogating verse 16:106

Ubiquity verification: No. Only one narration.

[Narration # 79] Narrator: Ikrima, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

By oe cme cy de Wash 2S cathy) oy Gee] We SB re LS 8
2 ou 5 yg 3 yrile on! oF da Se CF Sel ae GF oe! ie :du

Drs Joell (on 3ST 5s Tasha ans Se ail HE SD
Ua US oye gtealy Ged [1s Joell € BE SIDE od). Ps I

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

aad Je DO) O! Ly e5 pable Syke Le 5 Ge Lye le G5) BU5 OO] S
[We Joulll € ee} 5 aad

LS AIS Guar de SIS sl 'oo cel byl daw by abl Le jay reed! be sh JE
bp Slate Wl Sled ccesill by eb Sf ay He GUSIL Gould Slants Sb cabll Jet
Ab) Suny SLB eglie

Translation:

Narrated Zakariya ibn Yahya from Isshaq ibn Ibrahim from Ali ibn Al-Hussein
ibn Waqid from his father from Yazid Al-Nahwi from Ikrima from Ibn Abbas
(RA) that this verse in Chapter 16, "Whoever disbelieved in God after having
believed in Him, except one who has been coerced ... for them is a grand torment."
(16:106], that it was abrogated and excepted by "And then your Lord, for they
who migrated after they have been persecuted and then strove and endured, verily
your Lord, after that, surely is Oft-Forgiving, Merciful." [16:110]. Abu Abdil-
Rahman said, "He is Abdullah ibn Saad ibn Abi-Sarh, who was in Egypt and
used to write for the Messenger of God, but Satan tripped him and he joined
the infidels, so he ordered that he be killed on the day of triumph. Uthman (RA)
interceded for sheltering him and the Messenger of God sheltered him."

Sourcing validation:
Al-Albani [14] authenticated it.

Abrogation validation:
His words "abrogated and excepted" indicate that it is an exception and not
an abrogation by annulment.

Summary |: There is a criticized narrator in the sourcing chain, and the

word naskh in the text means the broad meaning of the word, not conventional
abrogation.

20. On abrogating verse 24:31

Ubiquity verification: No. Only one narration.

[Narration # 80] Narrator: Ikrima, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:

cote ol oF da Ss oF

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

Uv: yyll] € Ga lall Ge Pa ae £5 etek 85

~°

U3 oe BEN Toon) wis (GNI

[ve yy € . Sleas 69355 V G0 Li oe Aetgally }

<<

Translation:
Narrated Ahmad ibn Muhammad Al-Marwazi from Ali ibn Al-Hussein ibn
Wadqid from his father from Yazid Al-Nahwi from Ikrima from Ibn Abbas (RA)
regarding the verse, "And say to the believing women to lower their gaze ..."
[24:31], that He (God) abrogated and excepted from that, "And the retired
among women who do not long for a marriage ..." [24:60]

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Abu-Dawoud [3]. Al-Arnaoot said: Its sourcing is sound.

Abrogation validation:

The verifier of the reporting book referenced above, Al-Arnaoot, rejected the
abrogation, saying, "The correct view is that there is no contradiction between
the two verses so as to give rise to a claim of abrogation. And those who
count the 'retired women' verse abrogating, have distanced the sexual desire
(of older women). The minimum of what can be said about these two verses
is that the first one is about women whose beauty may be alluring, and the
second one is about elderly women, which is what Ibn Al-Jawzi said in his
book Nawasekh Al-Quran. And it is reasonable to say that the second one
specified the first, that's all, which Makki said in his book Al-Eedah. That
is because specification is the subtraction of a portion of the generality while
keeping the remainder taut in its ruling. What gives support to this argument
is that several prominent scholars who are highly regarded in this matter
have not mentioned any abrogating or abrogated concerning these two verses,
scholars such as Ibn Sallam and Al-Tabari and others." We say that his words
"abrogated and excepted from that" support this, that is, it is an exception
and not an abrogation by annulment.

Summary | There is a criticized narrator in the sourcing chain, and the

scholars did not agree that the text indicated conventional abrogation.

Note: Researching the sourcing books yielded no one who explicitly
authenticated this narration, but we followed the narration encyclopedia's
conclusionary rating of the narration being authentic to be on the safe side.

21. On abrogating verse 26:224

Ubiquity verification: No. Only one narration.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

[Narration # 81] Narrator: Ikrima, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic teat:

SF el sug oF 4 oF oe oe ie et :J6 tesiiall g Nose' io eed aes
JG cle ot! oF e daXe

[ot : sl asl] Sait tes wee aes ®

Translation:
Narrated Ahmad ibn Muhammad Al-Marwazi from Ali ibn Al-Hussein from
his father from Yazid Al-Nahwi from Ikrima from Ibn Abbas (Ra) that he
mentioned the verse, "And the poets, the allured follow them." [26:224], and
said that He (God) abrogated from that and excepted when He said, "Except
those who believed, worked the righteous deeds, and mentioned God much..."
[26:227]

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Abu-Dawoud [3], who did not rate it. Al-Albani [12] said: Its
sourcing is sound. Al-Bukhari [37] authenticated another version.

Abrogation validation:

His words "then He abrogated from that and excepted" indicate that naskh
is not annulment. What confirms this is that the verifier of Abu-Dawoud's
book referenced above, Al-Arnaoot, mentioned a narration by Ibn Abi-Hatem,
by way of Muhammad ibn Isshaq from Yazid ibn Abdullah ibn Qusait from
Abul-Hasan Salem Al-Barrad, servant of Tamim Al-Dari, who said, 'When
the verses "And the poets, the allured follow them...And that they say what
they do not do." [26:224-226] were revealed, Hassan ibn Thabet, Abdullah ibn
Rawaha, and Kaab ibn Malek came to the Messenger of God (PBUH) weeping.
They said: God knew when He sent down these verses that we are poets. The
Prophet (PBUH) recited "Except those who believed and worked righteous deeds
and commented: That's you! Then he recited, "And mentioned God much"
and commented: That's you! Then recited, "And sought help after they were
wronged" and commented: That's you!' Thus confirming the exception. Al-
Arnaoot then said that Ibn Abbas (ra), Ikrima, Mujahid, and Zayd ibn Aslam
all said the same.

Summary |: There is a criticized narrator in the sourcing chain, and the

majority of the scholars of past have agreed that what is meant by naskh in
this narration is exception.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

22. On abrogating verse 73:2

Ubiquity verification: No. Only one narration.

Note: A famous narration by Aisha (RA) about the abrogation claim of
verses 73:1-4 does not have the word naskh in it, so it is not included in this
Appendix per the specified criteria in the introduction, but it is discussed on
page 116.

[Narration # 82] Narrator: Ikrima, originator: Ibn Abbas (RA)
Arabic text:
LoS Ug UF el OF od Be Ss ith Oh Log ows gs ls
Sia) re JG inte ol F tas oF
prs: Bp {kes @ TS GN Sp
gs al GM Gc
[ors Jas € .. ie cae aaa 23 sya SON ale .
pL A coi Ua 5) jal Sols «sa ON agile 2555 - 6 ohh fests
A J34 sc A 3 os ab \3) aissy) si oe = = ce
[1: ped ty SUS 2581...
55 coal 3 a 3 ee
vs Joga ¢ Sig as jd)
yb bis 2b
Translation:

Narrated Ahmad ibn Muhammad Al-Marwazi ibn Shabbuwaih from Ali ibn
Al-Hussein from his father from Yazid Al-Nahwi from Ikrima from Ibn Abbas
(RA) that he said about Chapter 73, "Rise [during] the night, except a little, half
of it..." [73:2-3], that it was abrogated by the verse that has the words, "He
knew that you would never span it, so He relieved you, so recite what is easy (for
you) of the Quran..." [73:20]. Then he commented on the words "the onset of
the night" [73:6] saying, "The onset of the night is its beginning. That was

when they prayed. He (God) is saying that this is more effective in you being

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

able to grasp what He mandated upon you in rising during the night. That
is because when one sleeps, one does not know when he will wake up." He
commented further on "...better for articulation" that it means that it is more
effective in understanding the Quran. Then on "Verily, there is for you in the
daytime prolonged occupation" [73:7] that it says "a long available time".

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Abu-Dawoud [3] who did not rate it. Authenticated by his book's
verifier, Al-Arnaoot, saying: This is sound sourcing?® because of Ali ibn Al-
Hussein, and Al-Hussein is Ibn Waqid Al-Marwazi. However, see earlier in
this appendix that the scholars criticized Ibn Waqid. Al-Albani [12] also said
its sourcing was sound.

Abrogation validation:
Abrogation is stated in the text of the narration.

Summary |; Abrogation is stated in the text, but there is a criticized

narrator in the sourcing chain.

23. On abrogating verse 62:9

Ubiquity verification: No. Only one narration.

[Narration # 83] Narrator: Kharsha ibn Al-Hurr, originator: Umar (RA)
Arabic teat:

cls Gn pe Ki 7S |pall esl on rages oF 'eel! OF bone Ls meee LS (ne Fs Jb
[0s Anabll {dl 53 Sant abl oS ye LEU Gog) 15.
cone ual ois &

\ \

: Jl Mia thle hil oe ol Sal oy Sle
AU) SS cd} Npvonld : Lal I

b) dle OAS by

Translation:
Narrated Abu-Ubaid from Hushaim, from Mugheera, from Ibrahim, from
Kharsha ibn Al-Hurr Al-Fazari that Umar (RA) saw with him a tablet on which
was written, ".. if the call to prayer is announced on the day of congregation

(Friday), then proceed to the remembrance of God ..." [62:9], and he said to him,
"Who recited or dictated this to you?" He replied, "Ubayy ibn Kaab". He

26 Al-Arnaoot stated that the narration is authentic, then stated that it is (only) 'sound',
without commenting on the reason for providing two different ratings.

APPENDIX A.3. ABROGATION CLAIM NARRATIONS

said, "Verily, Ubayy was the most among us in reciting what was abrogated.
Recite it: Then progress to the remembrance of God."

Sourcing validation:
Reported by Ibn Kathir [164] who said: An authentic sourcing. The verifier
of his book mentioned that Al-Albani agreed with him.

Abrogation validation:
Ibn Hajar [155] mentioned the narration by Al-Tabari from Abdul-Hamid ibn
Bayan from Sufyan from Al-Zuhri from Salem ibn Abdullah ibn Umar from

his father that he said, "I never heard Umar ever recite it 'then progress',
indicating no abrogation if that was the issue.

Summary |: Sourcing chain appears to be connected, and there is no

abrogation here.

Summary:

- Number of abrogation claims narrations: 83.

- Number of narrations attributed to Ibn Abbas (RA): 67.
- Number of narrations stating abrogation: 62.

- Number of narrations stating abrogation of any of the Big Three: One,
narration number 82.

- Number of narrations rejecting abrogation: 21.

- Number of originators: 9 (Ibn Abbas (RA), Ibn Umar (RA), Salama ibn Al-
Akwaa, Mujahid, Abu-Hurayra (RA), Ibn Masoud (ra), Zayd ibn Aslam, Umar
ibn Al-Khattab (RA), and Ibn Al-Zubair (Ra)).

- Number of verses whose abrogation was stated or rejected by these
narrations: 26.

- Number of verses whose abrogation was stated by ubiquitous
narrations: Two (2:184 and 2:284).

- Number of verses whose abrogation was rejected by ubiquitous
narrations: Two (2:184 and 4:93).

- Number of narrations asserting abrogation which were at-
tributed?' to the Prophet (peux): Zero (56, 57, 59-62, 66, 67, 69 are the
ones attributed to the Prophet (PBUH), and all of them are parts of narrations
by Ibn Abbas (Ra) that reject the abrogation claim).

27 Where hearing directly from the Prophet (PBUH) is stated.

APPENDIX A.4. SHORT BIOGRAPHIES

A.4 Short Biographies

The following are brief biographies of 15 scholars who have influenced this
book. The biographies are listed in chronological order, and the dates follow
the Gregorian calendar.

Ibn Abbas, Abdullah (RA)

A young cousin of the Prophet (PBUH), and one of the most prominent
scholars of early Islam. He was born in Mecca, circa 620, three years
before the Muslims migrated to Medina. To him are attributed the most
narrations about naskh of verses in the Quran. He was 13 years old when
the Prophet (PBUH) died. Ibn Abbas (RA) died in Al-Taif, Arabia circa 690.
The redefinition of naskh to mean abrogation only was made many years
after his death.

Abu-Hanifa, Al-Numan

The first of the foremost scholars of Sunni Islam and the founder of the most
followed school of thought among Muslims. His methodology of analysis
set a platform for the discipline of Foundations of Deduction, which took
shape later at the hands of Al-Shafei.

He lived in the era before any Prophetic narration was properly authenti-
cated, so he formulated his school of thought largely on the basis of the
Quran and rational reasoning. He is considered a second-generation scholar
as he met Anas ibn Malik (RA), the last of the fellows of the Prophet
(PBUH) to die.

Abu-Hanifa used naskh as a means to reconcile verses in order to arrive at

religious rulings. He was born in the literary and scholarly town of Kufa,
Iraq, of Persian descent, circa 700, and died there circa 767.

Al-Shafei, Muhammad ibn Idris

The third of the four foremost scholars of Sunni Islam, student of the second
one, Malik, and founder of the discipline of Foundations of Deduction which
he detailed in his flagship book Al-Risala (Al-Shafei [94]). His school of
thought is second only in following to the school of thought of Abu-Hanifa.
As for his views on abrogation, he rejected the notion that the hadith or
the sunna may abrogate verses of the Quran.

(continued on next page)

APPENDIX A.4. SHORT BIOGRAPHIES

He had extraordinary memory, sharp intelligence, and a remarkable poetic
talent. He demonstrated his belief that religious edicts ought to be changed
when strong evidence calls for it by changing his rulings after he moved to
Egypt. He was born in Gaza, Palestine, circa 767, and died in Cairo, Egypt,
circa 820.

Al-Bukhari, Muhammad ibn Isamil

The first, and foremost hadith scholar to authenticate Prophetic narrations.
He was born in Bukhara, Uzbekistan, in 807, of Persian descent. He traveled
to most Muslim countries at his time, collecting Prophetic narrations from
everyone who had memorized some. That was not enough for him though,
as he took the extra mile of verifying the integrity and memory of every
narrator in the narration chain of every Prophetic narration he collected,
thus establishing a high bar for hadith authentication.

He recorded in his flagship book, "Sahih Al-Bukhari" (The Authentic com-
pilation of Al-Bukhari) only the most authentic Prophetic narrations (Al-
Bukhari [35]). His book has been the standard reference for authentic
Prophetic narrations ever since.

Among his students were three of the prominent narrations scholars: Mus-
lim, Ibn Khuzayma, and Al-Tirmizi. He died in Samarkand, Uzbekistan, in
870.

Al-Asfahani, Abu-Muslim

Born circa 868 in Ispahan, Iran, and died in Baghdad, Iraq, circa 938. He
is the most prominent anti-abrogation scholar among the predecessors. His
Opinions on the subject drew, and continue to draw, a lot of attention and
wrath from pro-abrogation writers as he was the only notable exception
to an otherwise apparent consensus about the abrogation doctrine at the
time. He wrote an extensive exegesis of the Quran, which was lost, but
other scholars such as Al-Razi included many of his views and quotes.

Pro-abrogation scholar Al-Arid [20] wrote about him: "He was an hon-
orable scholar, literary author, eloquent poet, uniquely genius, great
debater, deeply knowledgeable of exegesis and other disciplines, and
knew grammar. His peers admitted his intelligence and acumen, quick-
ness and soundness of mind, strength of argument, thoughtfulness, and
brilliance."

Historians mentioned that Abu-Muslim was a practical scholar, pious, and
God-fearing. They have not questioned his commitment to religion or al-
leged an aberration in his faith. His mentality was mature and multi-faceted.

(continued on next page)

APPENDIX A.4. SHORT BIOGRAPHIES

He managed to combine the world and the religion, scholastics, legislation,
and politics. He was so talented that he translated Farsi poems to Arabic,
making them rhyme as well.

In addition to his 14-volume exegesis of the Quran, he also wrote a book
about abrogation, which too was unfortunately lost. Many efforts to revive
his exegesis were made based on references and quotes by other scholars.
A notable such effort was made by Dr. Khidr Banha, who assembled to-
gether all that he could find of Al-Asfahani's quotes from different sources
and put them in a book (Al-Asfahani [21]).

Al-Jassas, Abu-Bakr

Born in Reyy, near Tehran, Iran, circa 917 and died in Baghdad, Iraq, circa
980. He took over the leadership of Abu-Hanifa's school of thought in
Baghdad, Iraq, then in Nisapur, Iran.

According to Rana [192], Al-Jassas was a key figure in defining the Abro-
gation Doctrine. But Zeid [206] had reservations on that assessment. He
believed that the ideas of Al-Jassas were reactionary as he was engaging in
debates with non-Muslims of his time who rejected abrogation on principle.

Al-Zahiri, Ali Ibn Hazm

Abu-Muhammad Ali ibn Ahmad ibn Said ibn Hazm.?" Much of the Zahiri
juristic school of thought is based on his writings. He was very critical
of blind following and of the juristic dependence on qiyas (analogy), and
insisted on relying only on the Quran, the authentic hadith, and the con-
sensus of the Fellows of the Prophet (PBUH). He pointed at polysyms as
a source of mixup and confusion that often led to wrong conclusions and
faulty rulings. He was born in Cordova, Andalusian Spain, in 994, and died
near there in 1064.

Ibn Al-Hassar, Abul-Hasan Ali ibn Muhammad

Abu Al-Hasan Ali ibn Muhammad ibn Ahmad Al-Khazraji. Born in Sevilla,
Spain, and lived in Fes, Morocco, till his death circa 1220 when he was in

(continued on next page)

27Not to be confused with an earlier scholar, Abu-Abdillah Muhammad ibn Hazm Al-
Andalusi, who also lived in Andalusian Spain.

APPENDIX A.4. SHORT BIOGRAPHIES

Medina. He was particularly interested in exegesis, literature, and poetry.
Most of what is known of his writings is through the quotes of subsequent
authors. He wrote a book about abrogation, and two articles, one about
the divine origin of the Quran and another about abrogation as the foun-
dationists understood it. His views on abrogation were quite strict and, if
followed, would eliminate a majority of abrogation claims.

Al-Suyuti [100] reported what Ibn Al-Hassar affirmed, that some verses in
the Quran are better than others, a key point in interpreting the abrogation
verse 2:106. Ibn Al-Hassar wrote "And it is amazing that anyone differs
about that given the many texts stating the preference."

Ibn Taymia, Ahmad

One of the most respected and influential scholars of Islam, so much so that
he was given the honorary title of Shaykh Al-Islam (The Elder of Islam). Ibn
Taymia is his nickname. His full name is Abu-Alabbas Ahmad ibn Abdul-
Halim ibn Abdul-Salam Al-Dimashqi. He was born in Harran, Turkey, in
1263, and then moved to Damascus, Syria, after the Mongols' invasion.
He taught the disciplines of hadith and jurisprudence in Syria and wrote
several prominent books, including a huge encyclopedia of religious edicts
(Ibn Taymia [172]).

Some of his opinions upset the authorities and caused him to be imprisoned
more than once. One of his most influential rulings about abrogation was
his refutation of the abrogation claim of verse 2:240 by 2:234 (widow's
residence), which changed the minds of many future scholars about this
famous claim.

His influence reached as far as India. Some of those who were influenced by
him were the Dahlawi family, of whom was the renowned scholar Waliyul-
lah. Among his students were the prominent scholars Ibn Al-Qayyim and
Ibn Kathir. He died in Damascus in 1328.

Al-Suyuti, Jalal Al-Deen

Born in Cairo, Egypt, in 1445 and died there in 1505. He was the first pro-
abrogation scholar to massively reduce the number of abrogation claims,
from over 200 down to 20. Most authors who wrote about abrogation after
him started out with the list of 20 claims he approved.

He was a very prolific author. Many of his books are highly regarded,
including his landmark book about the Quran (Al-Suyuti [100]) and a terse
exegesis which he co-authored (Al-Mahalli [67]).

APPENDIX A.4. SHORT BIOGRAPHIES

Waliyullah, Ahmad Shah

Known in Arabic literature as Al-Dahlawi, in reference to Delhi, India, where
he was born in 1703. He died in 1762. He is a well-respected scholar who
is known for reducing the number of verses claimed abrogated to only five
(Waliyullah [203]).

He is credited with returning the Islamic thought in India to its origins after
mythical ideas had taken over. He is also credited with opening the door for
Ijtihad (theological research aimed at reaching educated opinions) beyond
the four established schools of thought of early Islam.

Abduh, Muhammad

The most prominent Islamic scholar of the Nineteenth ae ae]
Century. He was the Mufti (Grand Islamic law adviser) of F =|
Egypt. He was known for his tolerance, progressiveness,
and intelligence, and was a pioneer of Islamic analysis
renewal. His lectures of exegesis were documented by
a student of his (Rida [193]). It was a distinctive exegesis
in that he attempted to explain the verses rationally on
a scientific basis.

He has the distinction, together with Muhammad Al-Khodari Bek, to be
the first highly respected modern scholars to refute all the abrogation claims
they studied.

He was born in Egypt in 1849 and died there in 1905.

Ibrahim, Professor Ahmed Bek

Born in Egypt in 1874 and died there in 1945. He
was a Professor of Islamic Law at Cairo University
Faculty of Law. He was recognized as one of six
selected Islamic scholars of the 14th hijri century
in the 1997 book by Abdul-Fattah Abu-Ghudda, and
also in the "Giants and Pioneers" book by Anwar Hegazi.

He was a prolific author, with titles on a variety of Islamic subjects, including
the discipline of Foundations of Deduction (Ibrahim [178]). He was open-
minded with a scholarly approach and a unique mathematical ability, and

(continued on next page)

APPENDIX A.4. SHORT BIOGRAPHIES

he wrote some of the most comprehensive references on the Islamic laws of
inheritance. He was often praised for his tolerant attitude and his notable
sense of humor.

Zeid, Dr. Mostafa

He was born in Kafr Al-Sheikh, Egypt, in 1917. His
landmark book on abrogation (Zeid [206]), which we
cite often in this book, was his Ph.D. dissertation. In
it, he refutes and dismisses scores of abrogation claims,
approving only five of them.

He was the head of the Islamic Law School of Dar Al-
Uloom Faculty in Cairo University for 16 years, and also
worked in Damascus, Beirut, Khartoum, and in Medina,
where he died in 1977 and was buried next to the grave of Imam Malik. He
authored other books on exegesis, hadith, and jurisprudence.

Al-Shaarawi, Muhammad Mutwalli

Born in Egypt in 1911 and died there in 1998. He
was arguably the most prominent popular Islamic
scholar of the Twentieth Century. His exegesis
(Al-Shaarawi [92]), which he died before complet-
ing, raised the bar of scholarship to a new high.
His mastery of the Arabic language and his in-
depth scrutiny of the Quran produced a phenomenal
insight into the holy Book. People who listened to his videos reported
moments of epiphany.

Based on what is available of his publications, we found that he only ap-
proved three abrogation claims: 4:11-12/2:180, 64:16/3:102 which he ac-
knowledged was about two different issues and 8:66/8:65 which he acknowl-
edged was contingent. So, practically, he approved only one claim. In the
other two, he probably meant by naskh its comprehensive meaning and not
abrogation.

APPENDIX A.5. TIME LINE OF SCHOLARS

A.5 Time Line of Scholars

The following is a chronological list of scholars and authors who discussed
abrogation, grouped by the era they lived in and sorted by the the year of
their death, collected from the sources available to us. For some, we point to
a book of theirs in the References section. The time line helps to understand
their era and environment and to relate each to his contemporaries.

A biography of some of these scholars appears in Appendix A.4.

First Century A.H. (622-719 A.D.)

Ibn Masoud, Abdullah (ra) (d. 32 A.H.)?°

Alqama ibn Qays (d. 62 A.H.) one of the fellows of Ibn Masoud (RA)
Ibn Abbas, Abdullah (ra) (d. 68 A.H.)

Al-Aswad ibn Yazid (d. 75 A.H.), one of the fellows of Ibn Masoud (RA)
Abul-Aaliya Rafee ibn Mahran Al-Riyahi (d. 90 A.H.)

Ibn Jubair, Said (d. 95 A.H.), a fellow of Ibn Abbas (Ra)

Ibrahim Al-Nakhi (d. 96 A.H.), one of the fellows of Ibn Masoud (ra)

Second Century A.H. (719-816 A.D.)

Abul-Hajjaj Mujahid ibn Jabr (d. 104 A.H.), a fellow of Ibn Abbas (RA)
Al-Dahhak ibn Muzahim Al-Hilali (d. 102 A.H.)

Abu-Abdillah Ikrima Al-Barbari (d. 105 A.H.), a fellow of Ibn Abbas
(RA) (also his servant)

Tawoos ibn Kaysan Al-Yamani (d. 106 A.H.), a fellow of Ibn Abbas (RA)
Ataa ibn Abi-Rabah Al-Makki (d. 114 A.H.), a fellow of Ibn Abbas (RA)
Al-Sadusi, Qatada ibn Diama [84] (d. 118 A.H.)

Al-Hasan Al-Basri (d. 121 A.H.)

Abu-Bakr Muhammad ibn Muslim Ibn Shihaab Al-Zuhri (d. 124 A.H.),
a teacher of Imam Malik

Ismail ibn Abdil-Rahman Al-Suddi (d. 128 A.H.)

28d. denotes year of death. A.H. means "after Hijra", i.e., the Islamic calendar, which
started in July of 623 A.D. and follows a lunar cycle.

APPENDIX A.5. TIME LINE OF SCHOLARS

e Abdullah ibn Abi-Najeeh (d. 131 A.H.)

e Abul-Nadhar Said ibn Abi-Aruba (d. 133 A.H.)

e Ataa ibn Abi-Muslim ibn Maysara Al-Khurasani (d. 135 A.H.)
e Ibn Aslam, Zaid (d. 136 A.H.)

e Abul-Nadhar Muhammad ibn Al-Saib ibn Bishr Al-Kalbi (d. 146 A.H.)
e¢ Imam Abu-Hanifa Al-Numan ibn Thabit (d. 150 A.H.)

e Abul-Hasan Muqatil ibn Sulaiman ibn Bashir (d. 150 A.H.)

e Ibn Al-Walid ibn Jurayj (d. 150 A.H.)

e Abu-Ali Al-Hussein ibn Waqid Al-Marwazi (d. 159 A.H.)

e Imam Malik ibn Anas (d. 179 A.H.)

e Abdul-Rahman ibn Zeid ibn Aslam (d. 182 A.H.)

Third Century A.H. (816-913 A.D.)

e Imam Abu-Abdullah Muhammad ibn Idris Al-Shafei [93] (d. 204 A.H.)
e Abul-Nasr Abdul-Wahhab ibn Ataa Al-Ajli Al-Khaffaf (d. 204 A.H.)

e Abu-Muhammad Hajjaj Al-Aawar (d. 206 A.H.)

e Abu-Ubaid Al-Qasim ibn Sallam Al-Hirrawi [171] (d. 224 A.H.)

e Abu-Muhammad Hasan ibn Ali ibn Fudhal Al-Kufi (d. 224 A.H.)

e Muhammad ibn Saad Al-Awfi (d. 230 A.H.), a teacher of Al-Tabari

e Jaafar ibn Mubashshir ibn Ahmad Al-Thaqafi (d. 234 A.H.)

e Abul-Harith Surayj ibn Yunus ibn Ibrahim Al-Marwazi (d. 236 A.H.)

e Imam Abu-Abdillah Ahmad ibn Muhammad ibn Hanbal [160] (d. 241
A.H.)

e Al-Bukhari, Muhammad ibn Isamil [35] (d. 256 A.H.)
e Abu-Dawoud Sulaiman ibn Al-Ashaath Al-Sajistani [3] (d. 275 A.H.)
e Abu-Isshaq Ibrahim ibn Isshaq Al-Harbi (d. 285 A.H.)

e Abu-Muslim Ibrahim ibn Abdillah ibn Muslim ibn Maaiz Al-Kajji (d.
292 A.H.)

APPENDIX A.5. TIME LINE OF SCHOLARS

Fourth Century A.H. (913-1010 A.D.)

e Al-Hussein ibn Mansour Al-Hallaj (d. 309 A.H.)

e Al-Tabari, Muhammad ibn Jarir [107] (d. 310 A.H.), the elder of ex-
egetes

e Abu-Bakr Abdullah ibn Sulaiman Al-Ashaath Al-Sajistani (d. 316 A.H.),
son of Abu-Dawoud

e Abu-Abdillah Al-Zubair ibn Ahmad ibn Sulaiman Al-Zubairi (d. 317
A.H.)

e Abu-Jaafar Ahmad ibn Isshaq ibn Bahlul Al-Tanukhi (d. 318 A.H.)
e Abu-Abdillah Muhammad ibn Hazm Al-Andalusi [19] (d. 320 A.H.)
e Abu-Muslim Muhammad ibn Bahr Al-Asfahani [21] (d. 322 A.H.)

e Ibn Abi-Hatem, Abdul-Rahman ibn Muhammad ibn Idris [142] (d. 327
A.H.), the exegete

e Ibn Al-Anbari, Abu-Bakr Muhammad ibn AlQasem ibn Bashshar (d.
328 A.H.), among his students was Al-Daraqutni

e Abul-Hussein Ahmad ibn Jaafar ibn Al-Munadi (d. 336 A.H.)

e Abu-Jaafar Ahmad ibn Muhammad An-Nahhas Al-Misri [71] (d. 338
A.H.)

e Abul-Hasan Ubaidullah ibn Al-Hussein Al-Karkhi (d. 340 A.H.), one of
the teachers of Al-Jassas

e Abu-Bakr Muhammad ibn Abdillah Al-Bardaei (d. 350 A.H.)

e Judge Abu-Said Al-Hasan ibn Abdillah Al-Sirafi Al-Nahwi (d. 368 A.H.)
e Al-Jassas, Abu-Bakr [56] (d. 370 A.H.)

e Muhammad ibn Ali ibn Babaweh Al-Qummi (d. 381 A.H.)

e Al-Daraqutni, Abul-Hasan Ali ibn Umar [40] (d. 385 A.H.)

Fifth Century A.H. (1010-1107 A.D.)

e Abul-Mutraf Abdul-Rahman ibn Muhammad ibn Isa ibn Futays ibn As-
bagh Al-Qurtubi (d. 402 A.H.)

e Judge Abu-Bakr Muhammad ibn Al-Tayyib Al-Baqillani Al-Basri (d.
403 A.H.)

APPENDIX A.5. TIME LINE OF SCHOLARS

e Abul-Qasem Hibatullah ibn Salama [170] (d. 410 A.H.)

e Abu-Isshaq Ahmad ibn Muhammad ibn Ibrahim Al-Thaalabi [110], the
exegete

e Abu-Mansour Abdul-Qahir ibn Tahir Al-Isfirayini Al-Baghdadi [24] (d.
429 A.H.)

e Abu-Muhammad Makki ibn Abi-Talib Al-Qaysi Al-Qurtubi Al-Maghrabi
[184] (d. 437 A.H.)

e Abu-Muhammad Ali ibn Ahmad ibn Said Ibn Hazm Al-Zahiri [121] (d.
456 A.H.)

e Abul-Walid Sulaiman ibn Khalaf Al-Tujaybi Al-Baji (d. 474 A.H.)
e Abul-Maali Abdul-Malik ibn Abdillah ibn Yusuf Al-Juwayni [59] (d. 478
A.H.)
Sixth Century A.H. (1107-1204 A.D.)
e Ibn Aqeel, Abul-Wafaa Ali ibn Aqeel Al-Baghdadi Al-Zafari (d. 513
A.H.)
e Abu-Hamed Al-Ghazali [44] (d. 505 A.H.)

e Abu-Muhammad Hussein ibn Masoud Al-Farraa Al-Baghawi [23] (d. 516
A.H.) the exegete

e Muhammad ibn Barakat ibn Hilal Al-Saidi Al-Misri (d. 520 A.H.)
e Abu-Hafs Umar ibn Muhammad Al-Nasafi [72] (d. 537 A.H.)

e Abul-Qasem Mahmoud ibn Umar Al-Zamakhshari [124] (d. 538 A.H.)
the exegete

e Abu-Muhammad Abdul-Haqq ibn Atiya Al-Andalusi [154] (d. 541 A.H.)
the exegete

e Judge Abu-Bakr ibn Al-Arabi [144] (d. 543 A.H.)

e Abul-Qasem Mahmoud ibn Abil-Hasan Al-Naysapuri Al-Gharnawi (d.
circa 550 A.H.)

e Abu-Jaafar Ahmad ibn Abdil-Samad ibn Abdil-Haqq Al-Khazraji [63]
(d. 582 A.H.)

e Abu-Bakr Muhammad ibn Musa Al-Hazimi Al-Hamazani [49] (d. 584
A.H.)

APPENDIX A.5. TIME LINE OF SCHOLARS

Abul-Faraj Abdul-Rahman ibn Ali ibn Al-Jawzi [147] (d. 597 A.H.)

Seventh Century A.H. (1204-1301 A.D.)

Fakhrul-Deen Al-Razi [83] (d. 606 A.H.)

Ibn Al-Hassar, Abul-Hasan Ali ibn Muhammad Al-Khazraji Al-Andalusi
Al-Fasi (d. 611 A.H.)

Saiful-Deen Abul-Hasan Ali ibn Abi-Ali Al-Amidi [18] (d. 631 A.H.),

Alamul-Deen Ali ibn Muhammad ibn Abdil-Rahman Al-Sakhawi (d. 643
A.H.)

Tajul-Deen Muhammad ibn Al-Hussein Al-Urmawi [114] (d. 653 A.H.)
a student of Al-Razi

Abu-Abdillah Shamsul-Deen Muhammad ibn Ahmad AlMawsili (aka
Shula) [199], d. 656 A.H.)

Abul-Hasan Ali ibn Abdillah Al-Shazuli (d. 656 A.H.)

Abu-Abdillah Muhammad ibn Ahmad ibn Abi-Bakr Al-Qurtubi [80] (d.
671 A.H.) the exegete

Shihabul-Deen Al-Qarafi (d. 684 A.H.)
Judge Naserul-Deen Abdullah ibn Umar Al-Baydawi [30] (d. 685 A.H.)

Eigth Century A.H. (1301-1398 A.D.)

Ibn Taymia, Taqiyul-Deen Abul-Abbas Ahmad ibn Abdil-Halim Al
Harrani Al-Dimashqi [175] (d. 728 A.H.)?9

Muhammad ibn Al-Mutahhar ibn Yahya ibn Al-Murtadha Al-Mahdi Al-
Zeidi (d. 728 A.H.)

Fakhrul-Deen Al-Bazdawi (d. 730 A.H.)

Abu-Isshaq Burhanul-Deen Ibrahim ibn Umar Al-Jaabari [53] (d. 732
A.H.)

Sharaful-Deen Hibatullah ibn Abdil-Rahim ibn Ibrahim Al-Barizi [146]
(d. 738 A.H.)

Yahya ibn Abdillah ibn Abdil-Malik Al-Wasiti (d. 738 A.H.)
Abul-Hasan Alaaul-Deen Al-Khazen [62] (d. 741 A.H.) the exegete

29 Also titled The Elder of Islam.

APPENDIX A.5. TIME LINE OF SCHOLARS

e Abu-Hayyan Muhammad ibn Yusuf Al-Ghornati [47] (d. 745) the ex-
egete

e Sadrul-Sharia Al-Taftazani (d. 747 A.H.)

e Muhammad ibn Muhammad ibn Muhammad Zanki Al-Asfirayini (d. 747
A.H.)

e Jamalul-Deen Abu-Muhammad Abdul-Rahim ibn Ali Al-Isnawi [52] (d.
772 A.H.)

e Ismail ibn Umar ibn Kathir Al-Dimashdi [163] (d. 774 A.H.) the exegete

e Badrul-Deen Muhammad ibn Abdillah Al-Zarkashi [125] (d. 794 A.H.)
the exegete

Ninth Century A.H. (1398-1495 A.D.)

e Ahmad ibn Ali ibn Hajar Al-Asqalani [155] (d. 852 A.H.)
e Al-Kamal ibn Al-Humam (d. 861 A.H.)
e Ibn Amir Hajj, Shamsul-Deen Al-Halabi (d. 879 A.H.)

e Abu-Hafs Sirajul-Deen Umar ibn Ali ibn Adel [143] (d. 880 A.H.) the
exegete

e Shihabul-Deen Ahmad ibn Ismail ibn Abi-Bakr ibn Buraida Al-Abshiti
(d. 883 A.H.)

e Abu-Zeid Abdul-Rahman ibn Muhammad Al-Thaalibi [111] (d. 884
A.H.) the exegete

Tenth Century A.H. (1495-1592 A.D.)

e Jalalul-Deen Abdul-Rahman ibn Abi-Bakr Al-Suyuti [100] (d. 911 A.H.)

e Abul-Yumn Mujirul-Deen Abdul-Rahman ibn Muhammad Al-Maqdesi
[68] (d. 928 A.H.) the exegete and Chief Justice of Jerusalem

Eleventh Century A.H. (1592-1689 A.D.)

e Marei ibn Yusuf ibn Qadama Al-Karmi [60] (d. 1033 A.H.)

APPENDIX A.5. TIME LINE OF SCHOLARS

Twelfth Century A.H. (1689-1786 A.D.)
e Jamalul-Deen Muhammad ibn Ahmad ibn Said ibn Masoud ibn Aqeela
AlL-Makki (d. 1150 A.H.)
e Waliyullah, Ahmad Shah [203] (d. 1176 A.H.)
e Atiyyatullah ibn Atiyya Al-Ajhuri [9] (d. 1190 A.H.)

Thirteenth Century A.H. (1786-1883 A.D.)

e Muhammad ibn Ali Al-'Shawkani [96] (d. 1250 A.H.) the exegete
e Muhammad ibn Salama ibn Abdil-Khaleq ibn Hasan Al-Jamal Al-Rashidi
(d. 1300 A.H.)

Fourteenth Century A.H. (1883-1980 A.D.)

¢ Imam Muhammad Abduh (d. 1323 A.H. 1905 A.D.)?°

e Muhammad Jamalul-Deen Al-Qasemi [77] (d. 1332 A.H. 1914 A.D.) the
exegete

e Abdul-Rahman ibn Muhammad Al-Qurrah Daghi Al-Kurdi (d. 1335
A.H. 1917 A.D.)

« Al-Khodari, Muhammad Bek [64] (d. 1345 A.H. 1927 A.D.)

e Rida, Muhammad Rashid [193] (d. 1354 A.H. 1935 A.D.) author of
Al-Manar Exegesis

e Ahmed Ibrahim (Bek) ibn Ibrahim Surour Al-Husseini [178] (d. 1364
A.H. 1945 A.D.), among his students was Muhammad Abu-Zahra

e Muhammad Abdul-Azim Al-Zurgani [128] (d. 1367 A.H. 1948 A.D.)
e Abdul-Rahman ibn Naser Al-Siedi [91] (d. 1376 A.H. 1957 A.D.)

« Mahmoud Shaltout [198] (d. 1383 A.H. 1963 A.D.)

* Qutb, Sayyed [191] (d. 1386 A.H. 1966 A.D.)

e Muhammad Muhammad Al-Madani [66] (d. 1388 A.H. 1968 A.D.)

e Muhammad Al-Taher ibn Ashour [153] (d. 1393 A.H. 1973 A.D.) the
exegete

30We start mentioning the Gregorian date for modern-day scholars.

APPENDIX A.5. TIME LINE OF SCHOLARS

e Muhammad Abu-Zahra [6] (d. 1394 A.H. 1974 A.D.)
e Ali Muhammad Hasaballah [139] (d. 1398 A.H. 1978 A.D.)
* Dr. Mostafa Zeid [206] (d. 1398 A.H. 1978 A.D.)

Fifteenth Century A.H. (Since 1980 A.D.)

* Dr. Muhammad Al-Bahiyy [25] (d. 1402 A.H. 1982 A.D.)

* Dr. Subhi Al-Saleh [85] (d. 1407 A.H. 1986 A.D.)

e Dr. Muhammad Mahmoud Farghali [136] (d. 1415 A.H. 1994 A.D.)
* Dr. Abdul-Mutaal Al-Jabri [54] (d. 1415 A.H. 1995 A.D.)

e Muhammad Al-Ghazali [46] (d. 1416 A.H. 1996 A.D.)

e Muhammad Mutawalli Al-Shaarawi [92] (d. 1419 A.H. 1998 A.D.)
e Dr. Mannaa Al-Qattan [78] (d. 1420 A.H. 1999 A.D.)

e Muhammad bin Saleh Al-Uthaimeen [177] (d. 1421 A.H. 2001 A.D.)
* Dr. Ahmad Hijazi Al-Saqqa [88] (d. 1426 A.H. 2005 A.D.)

+ Nada, Muhammad Mahmoud [190] (d. 1427 A.H. 2006 A.D.)

+ Al-Khatib, Abdul-Karim [61] (d. 1429 A.H. 2008 A.D.)

¢ Al-Arid, Ali Hasan?! [20]

« Jamal Al-Banna [29] (d. 1434 A.H. 2013 A.D.)

e Dr. Al-Qasabi Mahmoud Zalat (d. 1436 A.H. 2014 A.D.)

+ Dr. Mustafa Ibrahim Al-Zalmi [123] (d. 1437 A.H. 2016 A.D.)

* Taha Jaber Al-Alwani [17] (d. 1437 A.H. 2016 A.H.)

e Abu-Usama Shuaib ibn Muharram Al-Arnaoot (d. 1438 A.H. 2016 A.D.)
verifier of Islamic literature

e Dr. Hussein Nassar (d. 1439 A.H. 2017 A.D.)

e Afana, Jawad Musa [7] (d. 1442 A.H. 2020 A.D.)

e Dr. Shaban Muhammad Ismail [181] (d. 1443 A.H. 2022 A.D.)
* Dr. Yusuf Al-Qaradhawi [75] (d. 1444 A.H. 2022 A.D.)

31We found a mention that he died but we could not find any mention of the date of his
death.

APPENDIX A.5. TIME LINE OF SCHOLARS

e Dr. Ali Jumaa [182]

e Muhammad Abdullah ibn Muhammad Al-Amin Al-Shingeiti [99]
e Al-Ghali, Husam Rushdi [43]

e Ataya, Jamal Salih [132]

¢ Hamza, Muhammad [138]

e Tahir, Hani [202]

e Dr. Muhammad Salih Ali Mustafa [186]

e Dr. Adnan Ibrahim

e Dr. Ali Mansour Al-Kayali

e Luayy Fatouhi

APPENDIX A.6. REVELATION ORDER IN THE QURAN

A.6 Revelation Order in the Quran

The following is a chronological list of the revelation of Chapters of the Quran,
according to best evidence from narrations and studying the life of the Prophet
(PBUH) and the historical events that took place during that time. That
evidence, however, is not certain in sourcing. As a result, it is not in consensus.
The prominent religious authority of Egypt, Al-Azhar, has approved this order
and allowed it to be used in Quran books. We include it in this book for its
potential value to the readers.

Daruza [135] offers more details on this subject. You may also want to
read Al-Fairuzabadi [42], Al-Zarkashi [125] and Al-Suyuti [100].

[Order] [Chapter] [#Verses] [Meccan/Medinite]

1? 96 19 Meccan
2 68 52 Meccan
3 73 20 Meccan
4 74 56 Meccan
5 1 ie Meccan
6 111 5 Meccan
7 81 29 Meccan
8 87 91 Meccan
9 92 21 Meccan

10 89 30 Meccan

11 93 11 Meccan

12 94 8 Meccan

13 103 3 Meccan

14 100 11 Meccan

15 108 3 Meccan

16 102 8 Meccan

17 107 7 Meccan

18 109 6 Meccan

19 105 5 Meccan

20 113 5 Meccan

21 114 6 Meccan

22 112 4 Meccan

23 53 62 Meccan

24 80 42 Meccan

25 97 5 Meccan

26 91 15 Meccan

27 85 22 Meccan

28 95 8 Meccan

29 106 4 Meccan

30 101 11 Meccan

APPENDIX A.6. REVELATION ORDER IN THE QURAN

[Order] [Chapter] [#Verses] [Meccan/Medinite]!

31 75 40 Meccan
32 104 9 Meccan
33 77 50 Meccan
34 50 45 Meccan
35 90 20 Meccan
36 86 17 Meccan
37 54 59 Meccan
38 38 88 Meccan
39 7 206 Meccan
40 28 72 Meccan
Al 36 83 Meccan
42 25 77 Meccan
43 35 45 Meccan
44 19 98 Meccan
45 20 135 Meccan
46 56 96 Meccan
47 26 227 Meccan
48 27 93 Meccan
49 28 88 Meccan
50 17 111 Meccan
51 10 109 Meccan
52 11 128 Meccan
53 12 111 Meccan
54 15 99 Meccan
55 6 156 Meccan
56 73 182 Meccan
57 32 34 Meccan
58 34 54 Meccan
59 39 75 Meccan
60 40 85 Meccan
61 Al 54 Meccan
62 42 53 Meccan
63 43 89 Meccan
64 44 59 Meccan
65 45 37 Meccan
66 46 35 Meccan
67 51 60 Meccan
68 88 62 Meccan
69 18 110 Meccan
70 16 128 Meccan
71 71 28 Meccan
72 14 52 Meccan
73 21 112 Meccan

APPENDIX A.6. REVELATION ORDER IN THE QURAN

[Order] [Chapter] [#Verses] [Meccan/Medinite]!

74 23 118 Meccan
75 32 30 Meccan
76 52 49 Meccan
77 67 30 Meccan
78 69 52 Meccan
79 70 44 Meccan
80 78 40 Meccan
81 79 46 Meccan
82 82 19 Meccan
83 84 25 Meccan
84 30 60 Meccan
85 29 69 Meccan
86 83 36 Meccan
87 2 286 Medinite
88 8 75 Medinite
89 3 200 Medinite
90 33 73 Medinite
91 60 13 Medinite
92 4 176 Medinite
93 99 8 Medinite
94 57 29 Medinite
95 47 38 Medinite
96 13 43 Medinite
97 55 78 Medinite
98 76 31 Medinite
99 65 12 Medinite
100 98 8 Medinite
101 59 24 Medinite
102 24 64 Medinite
103 22 78 Medinite
104 63 11 Medinite
105 58 22 Medinite
106 49 18 Medinite
107 66 12 Medinite
108 64 18 Medinite
109 61 14 Medinite
110 62 11 Medinite
111 48 29 Medinite
112 5 120 Medinite
113 9 129 Medinite
114 110 3 Medinite

1 This means that if the Chapter was revealed before Hijra then it is Meccan and if it

APPENDIX A.6. REVELATION ORDER IN THE QURAN

was revealed after Hijra then it is Medinite. Some have said that some Medinite verses were
placed in Meccan Chapters and vice versa, but that has not been validated with a strong
evidence (Abbas [1])

?By consensus for the narration by Aisha (RA) about the start of revelation (Al-Bukhari

[35])

APPENDIX A.7. OTHER TYPES OF ABROGATION

A.7 Other Types of Abrogation

The subject matter of this book is the Abrogation Doctrine, which is concerned
only with verses claimed abrogated within the Quranic script. This type of
abrogation is but one part of a wider theological debate about abrogation in
general. In this appendix, we will provide a brief exposition of the other types
of abrogation so that the wider context is understood. Because these types
of abrogation are not part of the Abrogation Doctrine,®? we will not go into
detailed analysis of them.

We have already alluded to the other types of abrogation in different
parts of the book. Some of these types address alternative ways a Quranic
verse may be claimed to be abrogated, and we will address those in the first
section here. In the second section, we will discuss other types where the
object of abrogation is not a Quranic verse.

In many books about abrogation, the discussion of whether abrogation
has occurred does not make a distinction between the different types. Evidence
that supports one type of abrogation is sometimes passed as evidence for the
other types as well. Statements that establish that abrogation has occurred,
without specifying what type of abrogation, are sometimes taken as proof for
the Abrogation Doctrine in particular. We have addressed this problem in
detail in §12.2.2.

A.7.1 Other Types of Abrogation of Quranic Verses

1. The Abrogation Doctrine captures only one mode where a Quranic verse
is claimed abrogated, and that is "abrogation of the ruling but not the recita-
tion". The abrogated verse remains in the Quranic script but its ruling is
claimed to be no longer valid. There are two other modes mentioned in the
literature, "abrogation of the recitation but not the ruling" and "abrogation
of the recitation and the ruling" (Al-Baghdadi [24] and others). These two
modes have less agreement about them among the scholars and have a very
limited number of examples of actual claims. Al-Salih [85] counts this rarity
of examples to be against the advocates of the two modes.

Al-Salih is not alone in rejecting these modes. There are other pro-
abrogation scholars (i.e., those who approve of the "abrogation of the ruling
but not the recitation" mode) who disagree about the other modes. For ex-
ample, Zeid [206] rejects "abrogation of the recitation but not the ruling".
Al-Jassas [57] excludes "abrogation of the recitation and the ruling" in his

32 As we will see, two of these types involve abrogation of verses in the Quranic script but
not by other verses, and those types are widely dismissed so we did not count them as part
of the Abrogation Doctrine.

APPENDIX A.7. OTHER TYPES OF ABROGATION

writing.

In addition, while the first expression "abrogation of the ruling but not
the recitation" was phrased based on what Ibn Abi-Najeeh reported as an in-
terpretation of verse 2:106 by the fellows of Ibn Masoud (see §10.1), there is no
such basis for the other two expressions. They seem to have been concocted as
complements to the first expression, and older books like Al-Zuhri [127] and
Ibn Sallam [171] do not mention these expressions.

e Abrogation of the recitation but not the ruling: This mode of abroga-
tion revolves around a claim based on a singles narration attributed to
Umar (RA). The narration asserts that there used to be a recited verse
in the Quran that says "the elder and the eldress if they fornicate then
stone them entirely" (43) Layer yj 13) de padly rel), with other vari-
ations of the same narration adding different words to the purported
verse. Supposedly, "elder" (Gt!) is used metaphorically to denote an-
other Arabic word (—2| - "non-maiden") which specifies someone who
has consummated a legitimate marriage at some point, regardless of age.

Zeid [206], among other pro-abrogation scholars, rejects the assertion
that such a verse existed and that Umar (RA) truly said what was at-
tributed to him. Different scholars also raised different questions about
this claim of abrogation (Al-Arid [{20]). For example,

— AlNahhas [71] and others point out that the Quran is conveyed by
many reporting from many (hence it is certain in sourcing). The
above narration is uncertain in sourcing as a singles narration.

— Al-Zarkashi [125] and others raise the question of why the verse
would use the "elder" metaphor. The question is warranted given
that the subject matter is life or death in this case.

— Abbas [1] and others have raised the issue of how the purported
verse lacks the literary quality of Quranic verses.

e Abrogation of the recitation and the ruling: Muslim [189] reported a sin-
gles narration, attributed to Aisha (RA) by her student Amra that says
that the Quran had included a ruling that 10 nursings of a baby would
establish nursing maternity, and that this was abrogated by another rul-
ing in the Quran that reduced the count to 5 nursings. Neither of these
rulings is in the Quranic script, so the first one would be abrogated in
both recitation and ruling since its ruling is also abrogated (the second
one would be abrogated in recitation only according to those who believe
that its ruling applies). All of this assumes the accuracy of what Amra
conveyed.

APPENDIX A.7. OTHER TYPES OF ABROGATION

Another example was given in side note 33, based on a narration with
questionable authenticity. In that case, what was abrogated is suppos-
edly an entire chapter in the Quran. However, unlike the narration
attributed to Aisha (RA), there is no mention of the subject matter of
what was abrogated in that case. There are other, similar narrations,
also of questionable authenticity (Ibn Al-Jawzi [147]).

There are also reports of verses that were made to be forgotten rather
than abrogated. It is worth noting that from a practical point of view,
"made to be forgotten" is similar to "abrogated in both recitation and
ruling" since in both cases the verse will neither be recited nor followed.
Al-Tabari [107] describes both as 'abrogated'. Reports of verses that
were made to be forgotten are also singles narrations, hence uncertain
in sourcing.

We reiterate that neither "abrogation of the recitation but not the ruling"
nor "abrogation of the recitation and the ruling", if they occurred, would have
an impact on the refutation of the Abrogation Doctrine which is only concerned
with "abrogation of the ruling but not the recitation" (namely inoperable
verses within the Quranic script). It is only because these other modes are
discussed in the literature that we mention them here.

2. In discussing the Abrogation Doctrine, we have focused exclusively on the
cases where a Quranic verse is claimed to be abrogated by another Quranic
verse. In a notable minority of abrogation claims, a Quranic verse is claimed
to be abrogated by a ruling that is not in the Quran itself:

e Abrogation by a Prophetic narration: This is a strongly debated issue
in the abrogation literature:

— There are many scholars who reject that a Quranic verse can be
abrogated by a Prophetic narration as a matter of principle, most
notably Al-Shafei [94]. His view has been adopted by many schol-
ars over the centuries.

— Other scholars reject the notion based on a different principle.
All claims in the literature of abrogation of a Quranic verse by
a Prophetic narration employ a singles narration (thus uncertain
in sourcing) as the abrogating text. The rejection is based on
the principle that the uncertain cannot abrogate the certain (Al-
Juwaini [59]), and all Quranic verses are certain in sourcing.

— Others reject the notion by simple tallying rather than by invoking
a principle. They take all the claims of a Prophetic narration
abrogating a Quranic verse and show that there is no conflict that
would warrant a claim of abrogation.?%

33The most famous such claim is about leaving a will (see Step D in §6.1).

APPENDIX A.7. OTHER TYPES OF ABROGATION

— Related to this category is abrogation by sunna (Prophetic
traditions) which shares the same reservations as abrogation by
a Prophetic narration.

e Abrogation by unanimity: As we discussed in §10.3, unanimity among
scholars, even without a supporting Quranic ruling or Prophetic narra-
tion, is considered a source of legislation. This may raise a hypothetical
question for some about whether that source of legislation can abrogate
a Quranic verse. The same question is sometimes raised about other
methods of legislation that are also not supported by a direct Quranic
ruling or Prophetic narration. The widely accepted answer to these
questions is a definitive no.

3. There are other notions related to the abrogation of a Quranic verse that
do not constitute actual abrogation:

e There is a significant body of literature where abrogation (more specifi-
cally, the Arabic word naskh) is used in situations where no annulment
has taken place, but only 'partial' abrogation such as exception and elab-
oration (see §3.3.1). However, the Abrogation Doctrine is only about
a Quranic verse being annulled. If there is any role that the verse plays
in deriving the overall ruling, then it is not abrogated.

e A point on the philosophical side that we alluded to before is the dis-
tinction that many scholars make between whether abrogation is the-
ologically conceivable (Sus ¥l~) versus having actually occurred (gly

leew). Our only concern in this book has been the actual concurrence of
abrogation, as the definition of the Abrogation Doctrine indicates.

A.7.2 Abrogation of Other than Quranic Verses

1. The first type of abrogation that is not about Quranic verses is about
Prophetic narrations being abrogated. For instance, there is a narration (see
the discussion in §1.3) that quotes the Prophet (PBUH) saying:

I [Muhammad] had forbidden you from visiting the graves; now visit them.
which is a clear case of abrogation of a previous Prophetic narration. However,
whether Prophetic narrations have been abrogated is not the same subject as
Quranic verses being abrogated. There is a debate about what can and cannot

abrogate a Prophetic narration, but it is beyond the scope of this book.

2. The second type involves Quranic verses but in the role of abrogating
rather than being abrogated themselves.

APPENDIX A.7. OTHER TYPES OF ABROGATION

e A famous example is verse 2:144 which mandates that Muslims face
Mecca in their prayers (see the first claim in §6.3). Before that verse
was revealed, Muslims faced Jerusalem when they prayed. That was
not because of Quranic instruction, but rather by example of what the
Prophet (PBUH) did. Therefore, such change did not involve abrogating
a Quranic verse, so this type of abrogation is also outside the purview
of the Abrogation Doctrine.

e« Sometimes, what was abrogated by the Quran is a practice that belonged
to a previous Abrahamic religion, where such practice was adopted by
early Muslims until the Quran spelled out the Islamic version of that
practice. Fasting is an example of that. It used to be practiced on the
10th day of Muharram (Al-Bukhari [35]) following a tradition of Moses
(PBUH) until the Ramadan fast was instituted by the Quran (see Step D
in §4.3).

e« Sometimes, what was 'abrogated' by the Quran is a pre-Islamic pagan
tradition. This is obviously extraneous to the subject matter here since
pagan traditions have no legitimacy to begin with, so they don't need to
be abrogated in order to be dismissed.

3. The final type is an entire divine message abrogating a previous divine
message, e.g., the Quran abrogating the Bible (Al-Shaarawi [92]). The occur-
rence of abrogation among the Abrahamic religions is easy to establish. For
instance, Jesus (PBUH) is quoted in the Quran saying:

eatin sh oth abipeal esis GAH EIAs)
+: OL we SH €...
{3:50} And [TI have come] confirming what was before me of the
Torah and to make lawful for you some of what was forbidden to
you...

which is a clear case of abrogation of rulings that belong to a previous religion.
It is this type that the anti-abrogation interpretation of verse 2:106 and verse
16:101 was based on as we detailed in §9.4.1 and §9.5.

The specific wording of verses 2:105-106 suggests that this is the type of
abrogation that these verses are talking about. Here are the two verses again
with a key word highlighted,

is JB oS AIG Ces yal 5 sees ee la}
Us @ alas) Leash 93 diy 2165 Se arty, aide tly 0255 Se S| by

APPENDIX A.7. OTHER TYPES OF ABROGATION

2 z
\ (as\

Sk gaits tab he Blot a slal yp kas
[yr-0 3a] f Ja5

[2:105-106] Neither those who disbelieve from the people of the
Scripture nor the polytheists wish that any good should be sent down
to you [Muslims] from your Lord. But God selects for His mercy whom
He wills, and God is the possessor of great bounty. Whatever verse
We may abrogate or cause to be forgotten, We bring |better| than
it or similar to it. Did you not know that God is quite capable of
everything?

The Arabic word khair (+) signifies both the noun 'good' and the compara-
tive adjective 'better', so it is the same word used in 2:105 to describe what
people of the Schiptune don't want God to send down to Muslims, and in
2:106 to describe what will be brought to replace what God abrogates. This
gives credence to the interpretation that 2:106 is about the Quran abrogating
previous scripture.

References

e The references below are those directly cited in this book. No endorsement
(or lack thereof) about an author or a title is to be inferred by either the
inclusion or exclusion of a reference.

e We accessed all the referenced books, sometimes via the actual printed
copy and sometimes via online copies. The bibliographical specifications
and images for online copies are based on the best information we could
get.

e Many traditional Arabic books have titles that rhyme, so the 'poetic license'
may cause the translated English version of these titles to sound unusual.

e Copies of the specific pages that we cited from these references are included
in:

http: //Aabedan. org/citations.pdf

{1] Abbas, Dr. Fadl Hasan (1997). Perfecting the Proof in the Disciplines
of the Quran (Arabic). Dar Al-Furqn, Amman, Jordan.

[pe VAaV CoM Coles CoB AI sIo cele camer Sab .2-F cola! pple (3 oleh ola]

[2} Abu-Albaqaa, Muhebb-Aldin (ca. 1250). Clarification in Parsing the
Quran (Arabic). Home of International Ideas, Amman, Jordan, 1998.
Le V89A cosy Yl colee eddy ll ISM Coy celal gol cul Gee cohal Shel Gb obell]

[3] Abu-Dawoud, Sulayman ibn Al-Ashaath (ca. 870). The Sunan by
Abu-Dawoud (Arabic). Verified by: Shuayb Al-Arnaout et al, Dar Al-Resala
Al-Alameyya, Damascus, Syria, 2009.

AILS Dal jlo copes by pM yet 1 Gao) ROS o Cale EYE) re eagle al o~]
Le ves 4 clyge opees

REFERENCES

[4| Abu-Elela, Muhammad Mostafa (1958). Talk of Islam (Arabic). Al-
Babi Al-Halabi Bookstore and Pr inters, Cairo, Egypt.

6 pee ca pla] 'bl ell dedosy de weg seal Mat gel (gileyas dawrns ede Eyde]

[6 \Aen

[5] Abu-Khaythama, Zuhair ibn Harb (ca. 835). The Book of KnowI-
edge (Arabic). Verified by: M. Nasir Al-Din Al-Albani, The Islamic Bureau,
Beirut, Lebanon, 1983.

CBI cpl) pol tamer eked Sle Gye Cp dp Lek gel Bib cold OLS]
Le VAT coke cya (de aKa

[6] Abu-Zahra, Muhammad (1958). The Foundations of Deduction (Ara-
bic). Dar Al-Fikr Al-Arabi, Cairo, Egypt.
[e VACA ope cb ala gil pes] le ory) re doce (iil See]

[(7| Afana, Jawad Musa Muhammad (1992). The Correct Opinion about
the Abrogated of the Book (Arabic). Dar Al-Bashir, Amman, Jordan.

[pe VAay coal clas Catal) jlo BIE eres omg ager LSU epee SF Glpeall ost]

[8] Al-Aini, Badr Al-Deen Mahmoud (ca. 1450). Reader's Pillar to Expla-
nation of Authentic Bukhari (Arabic). Home of Thought, Beirut, Lebanon,
2011.

Lave) cold coy Sal lo 'esl dgocee cpl yy ccybedl a or ol tase]

[9] Al-Ajhuri, Atiyya (ca. 1750). Guidance of the Merciful to Reasons of
Revelation, the Abrogating, and the Abrogated (Arabic). Verified by: Abul-
Fadhl Al-Dumyati, Moroccan Center for Cultural Heritage, Casablanca, Mo-
rocco, 2009, ISBN 9789953817415
cele dl Lael yi: gieeell ccs ypger Ml Mae ce pecally aenllly gid) GLY garh okey]

[e Yee d corel colbert! jul 'rl lel Nal Sy

[10] Al-Albani, Nasir Al-Din (1995). The Authentic Series (Arabic). Li-
brary of Knowledge, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

cdjbedl 12S CSI cull pol teres ((earerall Ueulutl) degrerall yale tale)

: Le 1940 chdgemdle ob tl

{11} Al-Albani, Nasir Al-Din (1979). Quenching the parched (Arabic).
The Islamic Bureau, Beirut, Lebanon.

Sipps YW Kall SIM Call pel teres cbedl jbe cubed aus od lal ely!)

[e vava cold

REFERENCES

{12} Al-Albani, Nasir Al-Din (1998). The authentic among the Sunna
reports by Abu-Dawoud (Arabic). Library of Knowledge, Riyadh, Saudi
Arabia.

Leh ey cizlly Al Ble Se SI oh pel Heres cyl col ge eee
: Le ARAB EN 9 chopra! dy all

[13] Al-Albani, Nasir Al-Din (2000). The authentic among the Sunna re-
ports by Al-Tirmizi (Arabic). Library of Knowledge, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
Klan!) poy! cesigsly pball Gledl Se SI cpl pel dares sled ger eee]

[e Yuen B VEY es (A dgeudl dy pl

(14) Al-Albani, Nasir Al-Din (1998). The authentic among the Sunna
reports by Al-Nasai (Arabic). Library of Knowledge, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
baal aby! cguigtly bel Blea ES SIN call pel ere c sled ger eres]

Le VAAA-BV EVA CAdgeenll dy all

[15] Al-Albani, Nasir Al-Din (1997). The authentic among the Sunna re-
ports by Ibn Majah (Arabic). Library of Knowledge, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
Saath PLN caaiglly peel Bole Se eS cg pet dares carl ool ger eee]

Le VAAV-BVENY CAdgeedll dy ll

[16] Al-Albani, Nasir Al-Din (1997). Erecting Catapults to Demolish the
Story of Al-Gharaneegq (Arabic). Islamic Office Publishers, Beirut, Lebanon,
1996.
cobs age CAD aKa SIS ep pel dares «sal all dead isd Giles ai]

: [eo vaan

[17] Al-Alwani, Taha Jabir (2006). Toward a Quranic Position on Abro-
gation (Arabic). International Sunrise Boookstore, Cairo, Egypt.

Le vet cpeee cB CASA By Sl Lee cI pole abe Creel oe TS Udy pus]

[18] Al-Amidi, Ali ibn Muhammad (ca. 1200). Precision in the Founda-
tions of Rulings (Arabic). Verified by: Abdel-Razzaq Afifi, Dar Al-Sumaiei
for Publishing and Distribution, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, 2003.
eel le 6 Ate JI Le : Gao cee dnrws (ex ead cen Jeol 5 lS]

[pe o¥ caeayeel «sob! cuizlly peal

[19] Al-Andalusi, Muhammad Ibn Hazm (ca. 900). The Abrogating and
the Abrogated in the Noble Quran (Arabic). Verified by: Abdel-Ghaffar
Al-Bandari, Dar Al-Kotob Al-Ilmiya, Beirut, Lebanon, 1986.

Bo ges lial) es Grell ced ppm gt Aare SI Tall GF epecally eel]
: [e YAAT cold 629 provers) eI

REFERENCES

[20] Al-Arid, Ali Hasan (1973). The Inspiration of the Gracious One in
the Abrogation of the Quran (Arabic). Al-Khanji Bookstore, Cairo, Egypt.

6 esl ee co 4 CASI Glo Cay By Cet Cue gle cola esis obell a]
[e VAVY oes cb plall

[21] Al-Asfahani, Abu-Muslim (ca. 900). Al-Asfahani Exegesis of the
Quran (Arabic). Verified by: Khidr Muhammad Banha (historical, incom-
plete), Encyclopedia of Exegeses of the Secluded (part 2), Dar Al-Kotob
Al-Ilmiya, Beirut, Lebanon, 2009. .
pas Ghee) Slgbe pelos gh Cy Dpeall palit depp) ilgioll plas cal ni]

[eve 94 cols coy Apel CaS jlo c(agdie ey a Lares

(22) Al-Azimabadi, Sharaf Al-Haqq (ca. 1844). Aid from the Worshiped
One in explaining the Sunan of Abu-Dawoud (Arabic). Verified by: Muham-

mad Naser Al-Din Al-Albani, incomplete), Dar Ibn Hazm, Beirut, Lebanon,

2005.
cpl pel ame adel Soll pala God) Bd Coyle Gol gee Ce Me opel oye]
[e Yuro cok Com CA onl ole églSI

[23] Al-Baghawi, Al-Hussein ibn Masseoud (ca. 1100). Features of the
Revelation (Arabic). Verified by: Muhammad Al-Nimr et. al., Dar Teeba,

Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, 1989.
cdg I> cage ly pall dares 1 pdioesll cose! apreme op Crema (Ll plan) Sgtell pens]
[eo VAA8 chdgendl «eb

[24] Al-Baghdadi, Abdul-Qaher (ca. 1000). The Abrogating and the Ab-
rogated (Arabic). Verified by: Helmi Abdel-Hadi, Dar Al-Adwa, Amman,

Jordan, 1980.
coo) MI (oles sgl! i> ccsalgsl Ls eke 1 Gaoeell ces slaad ps ASF tpolly awl]
; [e \AAs

[25] Al-Bahiyy, Dr. Muhammad (1974). Quran's System in developing

the society (Arabic). Dar Al-Fikr, Beirut, Lebanon.
[e VAVE OLS cog « Kal jlo 'ced! teres «5 caeseall shi 3 ola ae]

[26] Al-Bahiyy, Dr. Muhammad (1978). Exegesis of Surat Al-Nahl (Chap-

ter 16) (Arabic). Wahba Bookstore, Cairo Egypt.
[e VAVA coe cS BL] (dung dK 'cet dors .5 ¢ feel Byge pen ]

(27, Al-Bahussein, Dr. Yaaqgoub (2000). The rule: Certainty is not re-
moved by Doubt (Arabic). Al-Rushd Library, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
[e Yuus (Apdgaund| coals SSI dK eC LI pix a) othsh Jax Y crs sich]

REFERENCES

[28] Al-Baji, Suleiman ibn Khalaf (ca. 1050). Perfecting the Details in the
Rulings of Foundations (Arabic). Verified by: Abdul-Majid Turki, Home of
Islamic West, Beirut, Lebanon, 1995. ,
ale res oes] Le 1 GhowdS| 'cert Ab oP Cale dpe VI alse ea Jsvaall alX>}]

[e Vado cols Coe «yl el

29} Al-Banna, Jamal (2004). Refuting the Claim of Abrogation in the
8 8
Quran (Arabic). Dar Al-Shorougq, Cairo, Egypt.
[e Vor d Coe cb ala] 6g ell gle ca) Sli> col al fe al (S36 Bera

[30| Al-Baydawi, Nasir Al-Din (ca. 1300). Discipline of Reaching the Sci-
ence of Foundations (Arabic). Verified by: Shaaban Ismail, Dar Ibn Hazm,
Beirut, Lebanon, 2008. .
coal cyl gle «hel! Olas 1 Ghoul 605.9 ead cpl eb dpe YI ele ) Jel! cle]

[e Youd cooks 9 yas

[31] Al-Baydawi, Nasir Al-Din (ca. 1300). Exegesis of Al-Baydawi (Ara-
bic). Prepared and introduced by: M. Abdul-Rahman Al-Maraashly, Home
of Resurrecting Arabic Heritage, Beirut, Lebanon, 1997.
casa) pat op AW Ae gl 8h guelll pet csylizall pends Syaa sill jel Lyall

Le AAV NEVA COLD Cig Call Sl all clad slo ¢ eerell per Sl te Lames pyliiy alte

(32) Al-Bayhaqi, Ahmad ibn Al-Hussein (ca. 1050). The Biggest Sunan
(Arabic). Verified by: M. Abdul-Qadir Ata, Home of Books of Knowledge,
Beirut, Lebanon, 2003.

SII lo Uae yall Le dere Galo ccligel Grd op ard Sy gh cs SU uel]
. [eye cok 69 Pewee)

[33] Al-Bayhaqi, Ahmad ibn Al-Hussein (ca. 1050). Introduction to The
Biggest Sunan (Arabic). Verified by: Dr. M. Dhiyaur Rahman Al-Aazami,
Home of the Successors for the Islamic Book, Al-Sabahia, Kuwait, Publishing
date not mentioned.
> pee yar cles teres 2 Geb geld Sy gel LB 5S geal I Jeet!)

[ . aul aul ee ow TORTS) cdl (eI LS cla

[34] Al-Bazzar, Abu-Bakr Ahmad ibn Amr (ca. 900). Exegesis of Al-
Bazzar (Arabic). Verified by: Dr. Mahfouz Al-Rahman Zein-Allah, Ulum
Alquran Foundation, Beirut, Lebanon and Library of Knowledge and Wis-
dom, Medina, Saudi Arabia, 1988.

5 ped Byles 2 Geb bpd gee ot dard Se gf Old! dene Gyaall leg pull
eteye sen) dy pl aL (Bygroll An deoSl ipSodl Seal daSy old (oy coll ase deen Ge call
[e VAAN E64

REFERENCES

[35] Al-Bukhari, Muhammad ibn Ismail (ca. 850). The Authentic Com-
pilation by Al Bukhari (Arabic). Dar Ibn Katheer, Damascus, Syria, 2002.

Le vee ¥ clap CGS CT cyl lo cCSyEES Goebel op teres «ses ae]

[36] Al-Bukhari, Muhammad ibn Ismail (ca. 850). The Small Book of the
Weak and the Dismissed (Arabic). Verified by: Mahmoud Ibrahim Zayed.
Home of Knowledge, Beirut, Lebanon, 1986.

(4b oS] gle AL; rstl! Dpemee 1 Ged ogy bedl ee baw| or dere psa cline] CLS]
[e YAAt cok 9 oat

[37] Al-Bukhari, Muhammad ibn Ismail (ca. 850). The authentic singles
on manners (Arabic). Documented by: Muhammad Nasir Al-Din Al-Albani,
Al-Dalil Bookstore, Industrial Al-Jubail, Saudi Arabia, 1997.

«fill AS «gl cpl pol ares reli essed! oP lent! yy dares «3,ée] Gail ao]
[eo AAV charged yall Lea! celal! front

[38] Al-Bukhari, Muhammad ibn Ismail (ca. 850). The Big Book of
History (Arabic). Verified by: Hashim An-Nadawi et. al., Ottoman Circle
of Knowledge (publisher) - Home of Scientific Books (scanning), Beirut,
Lebanon, 2009.

Grleall Bflo BWI cog tly Spt! ble: Ghredll syed pela! oy dares CS! Ayla]
[e Yee cokd 69 revecs)| eI gle ny cAgLesell

[39] Al-Dabbusi, Abu-Zeid (ca. 1050). Foundation of Vision (Arabic). Ver-
ified by: Mostafa Al-Demashqi, Dar Ibn Zaydoun, Beirut, Lebanon, missing
publication date.

GU cole aye Cpdss cyl glo gbtntl) giles pineal emg tI as gel call pl]
[

[40] Al-Daraqutni, Ali (ca. 995). Sunan by Al-Daraqutni (Arabic). Verified
by: Ali Abdul-Mawjud and Ali Muawwad, Home of Knowledge, Beirut,
Lebanon, 2001.

Capes Leone ley dpegell Le deed Sole spiced (bby poe oy Che cob ll yn]
: : [eyes) iets Bind (Adel! jt

[41] Al-Dominy, Dr. Misfir (1992). Imposition in the Hadith - The truth
about it, its classifications, rulings, levels and those attributed with it (Ara-
bic). Faculty of Religious Foundations, University of King Ibn Saud, Riyadh,
Saudi Arabia.
ccgel ADI AE cpp phent 12 64s Ogbepally aalay ally aalusly aadadm - Eto! (ball!)
(Ad gaudl dy pl ISLS «abst Cage cy teres SUL! dele cop duel us clashes iS| ong

[e vaay avery

REFERENCES

(42) Al-Fairuzabadi, Majd Al-Din (ca. 1414). Sights of the Discerning
into the fine points of the treasured Book (Arabic). Verified by: Professor
Muhammad Ali Al-Najjar, Supreme Council on Islamic Affairs, Committe
on Revival of Islamic Heritage, Cairo, Egypt, 1996.

Gales cosobliy all Copier cp eres cpl dome cyl CLS! ts 5 jecosll oy Slay]
Bald OY Sl cle} dad GAIL! gee le ulesll leat! cle dames shel
: "Te V88t cuee

[43] Al-Ghali, Husam Rushdi (2005). With Evidence and Proof - There
is No Abrogation in the Quran (Arabic). Al-Maktab Al-Arabi Lel-Maaref,
Egypt. ;

6 pee ca plall Bylo wo) een] iw (Seis plo coal ea lonn Y Ole ySly dootl]
ie

[44] Al-Ghazali, Abu-Hamid (ca. 1100). Jewels of the Quran (Arabic).
Verified by: Muhammad Al-Qabbani, Home of Revival of Sciences, Beirut,
Lebabon, 1990.

[pads cold cog cabal ele! slo iledll Lames spd Ml ule gh Lal ale]

[45] Al-Ghazali, Abu-Hamid (ca. 1100). The Purified from Science of Ori-
gins (Arabic). Verified by: Hamza ibn Zuhair Hafez, Madinah Munawwara
Company for Printing, Medina, Saudi Arabia, 2008.

Byyeall Ayal) AS LBL aay oy Sper Gleeall (MRI tale gh Spel ale oe ginernall]
. [eves A Chagall cdeybell ede ldadl

[46] Al-Ghazali, Muhammad (2005). Views into the Quran (Arabic).
Nahdat Misr Company, Cairo, Egypt. ISBN 9771423916
[e Yu so poe ca pla] 6 pee d2gi aS is «lp dnrus cola ea oI 5]

[47| Al-Ghornati, Muhammad ibn Yusuf (ca. 1325). The Encompassing
Sea of Exegesis (Arabic). Verified and indexed by Sidqi Jamil, Home of
Thought, Beirut, Lebanon, 2010.
dase Ge Laygiy Glos (bE RN Gey oy dearer ole gt Gent § hell pol]

: J [e Vode cokd 69 auisls ely acl Lu 5S gle 6 hee

[48] Al-Hakem, Muhammad ibn Abdullah (ca. 1000). An emendation of
the Two Authentic Books (Arabic). Verified by: Mostafa Abdul-Qader Ata.
Home of Books of Knowledge, Beirut, Lebanon, 1987).
ale cles jl Le tee 2 Gea (pS esl ad) AS on barns topes ue Sy deat]

Le AAV B® VELA cols Cy CAplall 2S)

REFERENCES

[49] Al-Hamzani, Abu-Bakr (ca. 1200). Taking Lessons of the Abrogat-
ing and Abrogated in Legacy Texts (Arabic). Othmani Knowledge Circle,
Hyderabad, India (second edition 1940).
phe Heilatall Blea flo eSaghh easel Sy gel GE ge Eprielly aeldl 3 shee]

Le vag. Eswl dadsly cag cob!

([50| Al-Haythami, Nur-Aldin Ali ibn-Abu-Bakr (ca. 1400). Assembly
of the Extras and Springhead of benefits (Arabic). Verified by: M. Abdul-
Qader Atta, Home of Books of Knowledge, Beirut, Lebanon, 2001.
SN slo cae temas 2 ald seta Se Cott ce gle ctl apd Ua aary Lily one]

[eves VB VEYY cold Syme choke

[51] Al-Hindi, Rahmat-Allah ibn Khalil (ca. 1850). Summary of Reveal-
ing the Truth Book (Arabic). Verified by: Muhammad malakawi, Ministry
of Islamic Affairs, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, 1995.

Ose! I) eye dass 1 giocel| ces ag del oR al Cur y (aol bl ols po]
Le \490 chanel cobs cdedte'y

[52| Al-Isnawi, Jamal Al-Deen (ca. 1350). End of Asking in Explaining
the System of Origins (Arabic). Verified by: Shaaban Ismail, Home of Ibn
Hazm, Beirut, Lebanon, 1999. .

Olas 1 Gao)! csp cps Slr See VI wie od! JSsneg)l cake (Soa e Sagan is]
[e yaaq cols (Sg ba cpl le ibe!

[53] Al-Jaabari, Abu-Ishaq (ca. 1350). Firmness of Scholars in the Abro-
gated Reports (Arabic). Verified by: Hasan Al-Ahdal, Foundation of Cul-
tural Books, Beirut, Lebanon, 1988.
SS Lene CSR pee pel eset Glew! gf GLE Epne SLA Ep]

[e VAAA cok 69 (dale)

([54| Al-Jabri, Abdul-Mutaal (1987). The Abrogating and Abrogated be-
tween Affirmation and ee ae (Arabic). Wahba Bookstore, Cairo, Egypt.

Le VAAV Cee cB Ali] ching Aes 66 pom Slated) Sc cisly LEY oer Eprcelly Rell]

([55| Al-Jabri, Abdul-Mutaal (1980). There is no Abrogation in the Quran.
Why? (Arabic). Wahba "ies Abdin, Cairo, Egypt.
Le VAs Cee cB Capble Chdy AS cS pont Slerel WE LS..ol dl Ld ae Y]

[56] Al-Jassas, Abu-Bakr (ca. 1000). Chapters in Foundations (Arabic).
Verified by: Ajeel Al-Nashmi, Ministry of Endowments and Islamic Affairs,
Cairo, Egypt, 1994.

55,41 ) (get) exe : Gao) «ge larssl GS re) ge (ex daset cdael e Sgro)!
Le 98k cpee cialdl de Yl gtedly

REFERENCES

[57| Al-Jassas, Abu-Bakr (ca. 1000). Rulings of the Quran (Arabic). Ver-
ified by: Al-Sadeq Qamhawi, Home of Revival of Arabic Heritage, Beirut,
Lebanon, 1992.

Cll slo! jis cgseesd Golall spiel «eleasll GR gl) he oy teed cola! lS]
[- VAAy cooks cog 'al

[58] Al-Jawhari, Ismail ibn Hammad (ca. 975). Al-Sihah (the correct
ones) (Arabic). Verified by: Ahmad Attar, Home of Science for Millions,
Beirut, Lebanon, 1979.
cobs iy Cee) plat ls lee took : pire! ce mgest slam oy pelaw! ic bell]

[eo vava

[59] Al-Juwaini, Abul-Maali (ca. 1100). The Proof in Foundations of
Deduction (Arabic). Verified by: Abdul-Azim Al-Deeb, Faculty of Jurispru-
dence, Qatar University, Doha, Qatar, 1978.
dele chest) EIS Cpt plead Ae: adoeall cca dled gf caaall Spel ole]

: " [e \avA ¢ ped cam gl ¢ bs

[60] Al-Karmi, Marei ibn Yusuf (ca. 1600). Necklaces of Corals in Ex-
plaining The Abrogating and the Abrogated in the Quran (Arabic). Verified
by: Muhammad Ghurayba and Muhammad Al-Zaghoul, Dar Al-Furqan,
Amman, Jordan, 2000.

Jess 1 yliirredl (ety Aevgs oy eo cola re Cotelly cell oly ole oS! E98]
Levees coal cglee coal jlo cps Lameay dul e

[61] Al-Khatib, Abdul-Karim (1970). Quranic Exegesis of the Quran
(Arabic). Home of Arab Thought, Cairo, Egypt.
Le VAVs cmos cBalill (oll Sill lo er pp SI LE cola SLA) nil]

(62) Al-Khazen, Alaa-Aldin Aly (ca. 1300). Exegesis of Al-Khazen (Ara-
bic). verified by: Abdul-Salam Shaheen, Home of Scientific Books, Beirut,
Lebanon, 2004.
pel ped Le speed CRI Le cpl HE opel Slee a fobs GLI) jbl! ani]

. [p Yast cited (ype CApaball eI js

[63] Al-Khazraji, Ahmad ibn Abdul-Samad (ca. 1200). Morning Breeze
in Unfamiliar Words of the Quran, its Abrogating and Abrogated (Arabic).
Verified by: Muhammad Al-Idrisi, Ministry of Endowments and Islamic
Affairs, Rabat, Morocco, 1994.

hoses 2 powell ery) eal Ae yy Hard cat pening cealiy Tal Ge GS cleall st]
Le \89e cdypall Lea bus chee gtttly BBA Sig slo cen, 2Vl

REFERENCES

[64] Al-Khodari, Muhammad Bek (ca. 1900). Foundations of Deduction
(Arabic). Al-Maktaba Al-Tijaria Al-Kubra, Cairo, Egypt, 1969.
[e VAN4 cpae cb ala (SSI dled! A255! ooh Spars dares .aiill Sel]

[65] Al-Khodari, Muhammad Bek (ca. 1900). History of Islamic Leg-
islation (Arabic). Dar Al-Fikr / Al-Maktaba Al-Tijaria Al-Kubra, Cairo,
Egypt, 1967.
epee Ball SSN dyes FS! | Sa jlo Coby Gere dares (OLY etal aybi]

[eb vary

[66] Al-Madani, Muhammad (2016). Islamic Society as organized by
Quranic Chapter of Women (Arabic). Supreme Council of Islamic Affairs,
Cairo, Egypt.

Bala) AMOS! gee de abreell cggbeball aren slut! Byer dake LS ade eacreell]
[e Ve\V coe

(67| Al-Mahalli, Jalal Al-Deen and Al-Suyuti, Jalal Al-Deen
(ca. 1500). Exegesis by the Two Jalals (Arabic). Dar Al-Hadith, Cairo,
Egypt, 2001.

a) val CH Cyl Ae cpl Sey (eel diese Cp doce cpt Sr coded) nt]
¢ ' Leyes) cee Bali) ceotostl jlo ¢cbegerl

[68] Al-Maqdesi, Mujeer Al-Din ibn Muhammad AI-Ulaymi
(ca. 1500). An Opening from the Beneficent into Exegesis of the Quran
(Arabic). Verified by: Nur Al-Din Talib, Ministry of Endowments and Is-
lamic Affairs, Qatar, 2009.

SS op og: Gia gw btel cers! dares opt Cl poe 6 LA pent 3 ce es]
[pV 88 Ch EY ogftlly GUAM Sli

[69] Al-Maraghi, Ahmad Mostafa (1946). Exegesis by Al-Maraghi (Ara-
bic). Mostafa Al-Babi Al-Halabi Publishers, Cairo, Egypt.

BAL) ceded lll gilaan dedany 225s (gb l pall planes dood Stew (ell) ati]

[Te \4en cpm

[70] Al-Mazini, Dr. Khaled bin Sulayman (2006). The Documented
in the Reasons of Revelation (Arabic). Dar Ibn Al-Jawzi, Dammam, Saudi
Arabia.

chpdymadl pLel ceil oul slo ecgtazell Okage gy ME 2 coldl dye Chel Jb fons]
[eyeen

[71] Al-Nahhas, Abu-Jaafar (ca. 1000). The Abrogating and the Abro-

gated in the Noble Quran (Arabic). Conveyed by: Abu-Bakr Al-Nahawi,
Al-Alaamiyya Bookstore, Cairo, Egypt, 1938.

REFERENCES

Beall ES sped SS gh bly Gebel er gh eS ola o epeally eb]
[e VAYA cpa cb, aléll

[72] Al-Nasafi, Abdullah ibn Ahmad (ca. 1300). Exegesis of Al-Nasafi
(Arabic). Verified by: Yousuf Ali Budaiwi, Home of Wholesome Words /
Dar Ibn Kathir, Beirut and Damascus, 1998.
ngs Abin pled Lec d yy AW Ae OUT I gal CC fogldl Giliny fell Ale) geen peed]

Le VA9A 6 Gey Sym CAS cyl slo | ede NI jl Sse oF

[73] Al-Nasai, Ahmad ibn Shuaib (ca. 900). The Sunan by Al-Nasai
(Arabic). International Ideas Home, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, 2008.
Le ves chzcgaenll abs cag th LSE capo ciensll Qegeds opp aol c slash ae]

(74| Al-Nimr, Dr. Abdul-Munim (1983). Disciplines of the Noble Quran
(Arabic, second edition). Home of Islamic Books, Cairo, Egypt.

Le VAAT cpa Sala As dteY STI jo pad erred He 02 (EIU deb) SU ol all pyle]

[75] Al-Qaradawi, Dr. Yousuf (2000). How do we deal with the grand
Quran? (Arabic). Dar Alshoroug, Cairo, Egypt.

[evens Cpe cB alall ody tll slo ccgglye pill Cdgy 22 Seale! Oba ae fold LS]

[76] Al-Qaradawi, Dr. Yousuf (1972). Seminar of Islamic Jurispru-
dence in Libya (Arabic). Site of Sheikh Al-Qaradawi, https://www.al-
qaradawi.net /node/4488, 2017.
https: //www.al- «ssLo,i)\ Gert) Bye ce glye ill hwy 02 cll Ld ey cert yu]

[a ye\ve qaradawi .net/node/4488

(77| Al-Qasimi, Muhammad Jamal Al-Din (ca. 1900). Exegesis of Al-
Qasimi (Arabic). Verified by: Muhammad Abdel-Baqi, Home of Revival of
Arabic Books, Cairo, Egypt, 1957.

[e \VOV cpa ca pla] reyes) eI cl!

[78] Al-Qattan, Dr. Mannaa (2000). Researches in the Disciplines of the
Quran (Arabic). Wahba Bookstore, Cairo, Egypt.
[e Yuu Cpe ca pla] Ads iS «QUasst Goal a) coLal ase e cole]

(79| Al-Qazwini, Ahmad ibn Faris (ca. 1000). Dictionary of Standards of
the Language (Arabic). Verified by: Abdul-Salam Harun, Home of Thought,
Beirut, Lebananon, 1979.
cy CSA jlo cope pe ae sade! coteg SA Gy oy aol cael pele arene]

: Le vava cold

REFERENCES

[80] Al-Qurtubi, Muhammad (ca. 1300). The Collector of the Rulings of
the Quran (Arabic). Verified by: Abdullah Al-Turki, Al-Resala Foundation,
Beirut, Lebananon, 2006.

Cok) yee Mest damage Sal Ul he Girl ede) dares cola ais eel]
[e Youd

[81] Al-Qurtubi, Muhammad (ca. 1300). The Reminder in The best Re-
membrances (Arabic). Verified by: Bashir Oyoun, Dar Al-Bayan Bookstore

/ Al-Moayyad Bookstore, Damascus, Al-Taif, and Riyadh, 1987.
clugall 4X0 [| olell glo LeSe ccrgee pete 1 Gareall cele dares GIS fail 8 il]
: Le VAAV celedly iUally Gees

(82) Al-Rajjal, Rashid (1991). Exegesis of Ibn Abbas (Arabic). [authenticity
of conveyance from Ibn Abbas has doubts]. Foundation of Cutural Books,
Beirut, Lebanon.
aL ASS) Lege (LE cyl ye fill deeb SyKee) SEN ABI ele cyl nti]

: [e V44) cooks cog

[83] Al-Razi, Muhammad Fakhr A1-Din (ca. 1200). Exegesis of Al-Fakhr
Al-Razi (Arabic). Dar Al-Fikr, Beirut, Lebanon, 1981.
[e VAAN cold 69 Sal gle ee) silyl dru ccsill pe et

(84| Al-Sadusi, Qatada ibn Diama (ca. 700). The Abrogating and the
Abrogated in the Book of God Almighty (Arabic). Verified by: Hatem Al-
Dhamen, Foundation of the Message, Beirut, Lebanon, 1984.
Hehe ccptlvall ile: Glee! ce gid! dales oy S2tB «Shy alll OLS str awl]

: [e YaAt cold 69 ALA

[85] Al-Salih, Dr. Subhi (1977). Researches in the Disciplines of the Quran
(Arabic). Home of Knowledge for the Millions, Beirut, Lebanon.
[e VAVV (gk cog bo el oll ale Fedemdl ere 3 coLal ase eZ eel]

[86] Al-Samarqandi, Nasr ibn Muhammad (ca. 1000). Exegesis of Al-
Samarqandi (Sea of Sciences) (Arabic). Verified by: Aly Muawwadh et al,
Home of Scientific Books, Beirut, Lebanon, 1993.
ole copels ue aa 1 Ophi>eal EAB pe dares oy pas «(agbal PH) Cadell enti]

[e yaar cold realy preeees)| ec

(87| Al-Sanaani, Muhammad ibn Ismail (ca. 1768). Ways of Peace in Ex-
plaining "Reaching the Aspired" by Ibn Hajar Al-Asqalani (Arabic). Sorted
by Al-Sanaani. Commented by: Al-Albani, Library of Knowledges for Pub-
lishing and Distribution, Riyad, Saudi Arabia, 2006.

REFERENCES

cpgSleinall Jub lant! cpp dares lena sinh pm oy! Libedl colyall Eph oe ped fee]
[e Youd (Ad gan! «abl cauigly peal! BylesS! iS «gtd cel pol ders Gebel

[88] Al-Saqqa, Ahmad Hijazi (1978). No Abrogation in the Quran (Ara-
bic). Home of Arab Thought, Cairo, Egypt.
Le AVA cae cBalall call Sill jlo Ube sila toot otal ob aw Y]

[89] Al-Saqqaf, Ulwi bin Abdul-Qadir, supervisor. Hadith Encyclopedia
(Arabic). Al-Dorar Al-Saniyya Foundation, Al-Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.
ASLaodl cg gball Aged) yl damage BUbaSI UB Ae cy oghe Hit) Aton! depuyell]

(90| Al-Sayis, Muhammad Aly (2002). Interpreting the Verses of Rulings
(Arabic). (AlMaktaba Al-Shamela version of the book), verified by: Nagi
Suwaidan, Al-Maktaba Al-Asriya, Cairo, Egypt.

:Gareall CALE 2eSNl oye Deal! LST deans) ccpmplenll GLO deren ASV OUT nit]
Le ves epee call) ctl ZeLEU Apron) AS cgldyer ob

[91] Al-Seadi, Abdul-Rahman ibn Naser (2002). Facilitation from the
Generous, Gracious One of Exegesis of the Words of the Benefactor (Ara-
bic). Verified by: Abdul-Rahman ibn Mualla Al-Luwaiheq. Home of Peace
Publishers and Distributors, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, 2002.
cet be Galette) pel gt germ N be cols IT ed SF or! eS wd]

[e YurY cdageadl dy al ISLS! cell ' auiplls pa Pre! lo gous ll Dee oy

(92) Al-Shaarawi, Muhammad Mutwalli (1991). The Exegesis of Al-
Shaarawi (Arabic). Dar Akhbar Al-Yom, Cairo, Egypt. ISBN 977-080-111-9
Le Aa) cae cBALa cogdl LET jlo cosy mill Syie aree «cyl etll pnd]

[93] Al-Shafei, Muhammad ibn Idris (ca. 800). The Source - Difference
in Narration (Arabic). Verified by Dr. Refaat Abdu-Muttalib, Dar Alwafaa,
Mansoura, Egypt, 2001.
csliglh jlo ccllaadI he candy 13 Glee BLEN Ga yal yp Heres eye) dks. oI]

[e You) Cpae cSygvarall

[94] Al-Shafei, Muhammad ibn Idris (ca. 800). The Message (Arabic).
Verified by Ahmad Shaker, A-Babi Al-Halabi Press,Cairo, Egypt, 1938.

cee BAD Clo oli dedee SUE deol: parcel BLN Gu yal Gy dearer TL]

: [eo vara

REFERENCES

[95] Al-Shatibi, Ibrahim ibn Musa (ca. 1400). Agreements (Arabic).
Verified by: Abu-Ubaida Aal Salman, Dar Ibn Affan, Al-Khobar, Saudi
Arabia, 1997.

ALS Ca) colic cyl jlo colebe ST Bane gels Gekod CeALEN Coege Cop able! Ll poll]
: [eo VAAV cogeenll dy ll

[96] Al-Shawkani, Muhammad ibn Ali (ca. 1800). Inspiration of the Most
Powerful (Arabic). Verified by: Yousof Al-Ghoush, Dar Al-Maarefa, Beirut,
Lebanon, 2007. ISBN 9953-420-75-0

[e YeeV cok 62 oy (4b oll lo cepa eye + Gio! ¢ lSpau oF oH dru cgtall as]

(97| Al-Shaybani, Muhammad and Al-Khazendar, Ahmad (1995).
Guide to Manuscripts of Al-Suyuti and their Locations (Arabic). Center for
Manuscripts, Heritage, and Documents, Safa, Kuwait.

Ubgesel) Sp PAN Lary Sled) Aree clergy ySlily opel olbgers >]
[eo V89e cea cSLivall cgUgly Sl ly

[98] Al-Shayea, Muhammad ibn Abdul-Rahman (1993). Linguistic
Differences and their Impact on Interpreting the Noble Quran (Arabic).
Al-Ubaykan Bookstore, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

PUY! IK) ReSe a gLEI cpr NE cy eres (ST! OTA pend Lagly Sal Gy dl]
Le \Aay chsgenll

[99] Al-Shingeiti, Abdullah ibn Muhammad Al-Ameen (2002). The
Abrogated Verses in the Noble Quran (Arabic). Ibn Taymiya Bookstore,
Cairo, Egypt, 2002.

Cala) ded opl EK chain! Cet haces oy AU AE Ge SUI oT BBall OU]
[e Yue coe

{100} Al-Suyuti, Jalal Al-Din (ca. 1500). Meticulousness in the Disciplines
of the Quran (Arabic). King Fahd Complex, Medina, Saudi Arabia, 2005.
CLdgmed] CSygiat) Aytell ctgd SUS! perme «bom! call Ser chill pple 3 ole]
¢ ae

{101} AlSuyuti, Jalal Al-Din (ca. 1500). Roadmap of the Narrator
(Arabic). Verified by: Abu-Qutayba Al-Farayabi, Maktabat Al-Kawthar,
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, 1994.
cUogaedl cab SU) Lee cglylal ed gh: dred cbogall op SH css d! Cay]

[> \aae

{102} Al-Suyuti, Jalal Al-Din (ca. 1500). Sprinked Gems (Exegesis) (Ara-
bic). Home of Thought, Beirut, Lebanon, 2011.

REFERENCES

KELL Sal jlo gbegeedl Se coh op mM AE cpl SM Csllall allo yyeall ll]
Le ve\\ cold oye euigdly ally

[103] Al-Suyuti, Jalal Al-Din (ca. 1500). The Book of Names of Imposers
(Arabic). Home of The Generation, Beirut, Lebanon, 1992.
Le Vay coli igre cherll slo ccbegemanll cpt Ser LaBboeI plc peenlatall clawed LS]

(104) Al-Suyuti, Jalal Al-Din (ca. 1500). Coronet in Deducing the Revela-
tion (Arabic). Verified by: Seif Al-Din Al-Kateb, Home of Scientific Books,
Beirut, Lebanon, 1981.
cp Be Gel cep SY Goth ge emt He onl JD upall ble! a JS]

Le VaAd cold eye Aeabell 2S jlo «als

(105) Al-Suyuti, Jalal Al-Din (ca. 1500). Warning for the Elite of the
Lies of the Storytellers (Arabic). Verified by: Dr. Muhammad bin Lutfi
Al-Sabbagh, Islamic Bureau, Beirut, Lebanon,1981.
cp dace gS: gareall ( cbegemenll cpl SS ple caked 251) oe Gelell pos]

" [e VaAt cokd (oy (ey ESI cf Lwall sit)

{106} Al-Tabarani, Abul-Qasem (ca. 970). The Big Dictionary (Arabic).
Verified by: Abu-Mostafa Hamdy Abdul-Majid Al-Salafi, Ibn Taymia Li-
brary, Cairo, Egypt,1976.
cy! iS 'sled deel! Le (Sam cles yl 1 Glow «hl lal wl re ce) we]

[e VAY cps cb alll cag

(107] Al-Tabari, Muhammad ibn Jarir (ca. 900). Exegesis of Al-Tabari -
Comprehensive Elaboration on the Interpretation of the Verses of the Quran
(Arabic). Verified by: Abdullah Al-Turki, Dar Hajr, Giza, Egypt, 2001.

Spl al te: pioesl oS yabaNl er yp deren TAT ght ge abel erle ~ spall enti]
[oe y++) 6 wee ¢ djenSl cpr lo

{108} Al-Tahawi, Ahmad ibn Muhammad (ca. 925). Explanation of
Problematic Narations (Arabic). Verified by: Shuaib Al-Arnaoot, Al-Risala
Foundation, Beirut, Labanon, 1994.
cles igs Lah Lense by SE I Coad sgdeeall ceggloeball pdr gi GUY [See 2 2]

[> \aae

[109] Al-Tahawi, Ahmad ibn Muhammad (ca. 925). The Core of the

Tahawi Doctrine (Arabic). Home of Ibn Hazm, Beirut, Labanon, 1995.
[e \44o cok C9 ba onl ole cg gloelall pire gl cAygloebal sia] ox]

A771

REFERENCES

{110} Al-Thaalabi, Al-Hammam Abu-Isshaq Ahmad (ca. 1025). Exege-
sis of Al-Thaalabi (Arabic). Verified by: Abu-Muhammad ibn Ashur, Home
of Revival of Arabic Heritage, Beirut, Lebanon, 2002.

SND cap ble oy ares gol Adin ccealatl dard Glew! gol ploght clei! enih - obelly GAS]
" [eyed cold coy call Std clo}

[111] Al-Thaalibi, Abdul-Rahman ibn Muhammad (ca. 1450). Exegesis
of Al-Thaalibi (Arabic). Verified by: Ali M. Muawwad and Adel A. Abdul-
Mawjud, Home of Revival of Arabic Heritage, Beirut, Lebanon, 1997.
GBT CSL hares opt Cpr AE LAI pent Sobol pled Geel (lel nti]

[e V4aVv cold 69 'al ee) slo] gle (dsp Ls Eves Sale, ey teow exe

[112] Al-Tibi, Al-Hussein ibn Abdullah (ca. 1450). Openings into the
Beyond (Exegesis commentary) (Arabic). Dubai International Prize for the
Noble Quran, ISBN: 9789957231804, 2013.

2 BEL gel WE oe gmerl Ggt By al eB ge GSS Gall cg]
Le vere every e/v/ror oN debyl AKI afl cw CY 8) eS! of aU Ayu

[113] Al-Tirmizi, Muhammad ibn Isa (ca. 900). The Sunan by AL Tirmizi
(Arabic). Verified by: Bashar Maarouf, Home of Islamic West, Beirut,
Lebanon, 1996.

wel ale Bans play + gio She I (ern Cp Aeoes (Ge abs!) slal o~]
[e yaar cold 69 (ey)

(114) Al-Urmawi, Muhammad ibn Al-Hussein (ca 1300). Crop Yield
in Foundations of Deduction (Arabic). Verified by: Dr. Abdul-Salam Abu-
Naji, University of Qar Yunus Publications, Benghazi, Libya, 1994.

pS sgioeall csp) enol yy Aaree Gull CU call Spel oo Upareall ye bebull]
[e V948 chad ccojley pig: UG decle Slypie il re Pel ws

[115] Al-Wadei, Mugbil Ibn Hadi (ca. 2000). The Referenced Authentic
(Hadiths) not in the Two Authentic Books (i.e., Al-Bukhari's and Muslim's)
(Arabic). Dar Al-Athar, Sanaa, Yemen, 2005.
todd slne GEM Glo ccealgll Sole op ele gered oad Ler ten! peel]

[oe yeso VEY

[116] Al-Wahidi, Aly ibn Ahmad (ca. 1050). Reasons for Revelation in
the Quran (Arabic). Verified by: Kamal Zaghloul, Home of Scientific Books,
Beirut, Lebanon, 1991.
cSigye Agel) CaS lo cSgles SLES: gérecdl story weet oy de chal yp Cle]

: Ce 144) cold

A472

REFERENCES

[117] Al-Waqidi, Muhammad ibn Omar (ca. 800). Conquests of the La-
vant (Arabic). Verified by: Abdel-Latif Abdel-Rahman, Home of Scientific
Books, Beirut, Lebanon, 1997.

69 yes prepa) NI jlo copay se Cab) we + Glow SABI ae Cn dws clad oe]
Ce V4av cold

[118] Al-Zahabi, Dr. Muhammad Hussein (1976). Exegesis and Exegetes
(Arabic). Wahba Bookstore, Cairo, Egypt.

[e AVA Cpe cb alas) rey) dS «PU ome dno .3 (Og petal en)

119} Al-Zahabi, Shams Al-Din (1347). Biographies of Prominent Nobles
[o}
(Arabic). Al-Risala Doundation, Beirut, Lebanon, 1996.
[e Var coks cog DLS dge 'gh CR ros co SI ane a]

[120] Al-Zahabi, Shams A]-Din (1347). Reminder of the Keepers (Arabic).
Verified by: Zakariya Umayrat, Home of Scientific Books, Beirut, Lebanon,
1998.
cok 69 ees) SI No ol por LS 1 Gao) 6 gh cpl Sores) (biol as 45]

: [eo aaa

[121] Al-Zahiri, Aly Ibn Hazm (ca. 1050). Precision in the Foundations
of Rulings (Arabic). Verified by: Ahmad Shakir. Home of New Horizons,
Beirut, Lebanon, 1983. P
Bayes! GUM jlo GSU daot sparen! ce BUbsl ap oy le AIS Spel 3 le YI]

" [e \9A¥r inte 69

{122} Al-Zahiri, Aly Ibn Hazm (ca. 1050). The adorned (Arabic). Verified
by: Khalid Al-Rabbat, et al. Home of prosperity, Lebanon, 2016.

[eV V5 cold cw jlo cope ly buy WE: gireall ee AL apm on le g foa)

[123] Al-Zalmi, Dr. Mostafa Ibrahim (2006). Clarification for Removing
the Abrogation Mystery in Quran (Arabic). Dar Wael For Publishing and
Distribution, Amman, Jordan. ISBN 9789957114251
Olas carigily pea) fly jlo ced) ently! Hlavee «2 COA Lo Rell epee OS) obel]

[e Your cool

[124] Al-Zamakhshari, Mahmoud ibn Omar (ca. 1100). The Revealer
- Al-Zamakhshari Exegesis (Arabic). verified by: Khalil Shiha, Home of
Knowledge, Beirut, Lebanon, 2009. ;

CSigy CAral lo Clee Jud : Geko CyB pal yp aperes (Stora! pent) LEST]
[eye +4 cold

REFERENCES

[125] Al-Zarkashi, Badr Al-Din (ca. 1350). The Proof in the Disciplines
of the Quran (Arabic). Verified by: Muhammad Abul-Fadl Ibrahim. Dar
Al-Turath Bookstore, Cairo, Egypt, 1957.
call lo 22S cwablyl foiadll gh dere Galo eb Cll sete coball ple CS olaysl]

. [e \VOV «pee a pla] Pheescal gle

[126] Al-Zarkashi, Badr Al-Din (ca. 1350). The Surrounding Sea (Arabic).
Verified by: Abdel-Qader Al-Aani. Ministry of Endowments, Kuwait, 1992.
Le VAAy cea) SUSY Shig CSL! pola te Gein (ATM Cp pty chee! pel]

[127] Al-Zuhri, Ibn Shihab (ca. 700). The Abrogating and Abrogated in the
Noble Quran. [attribution to Al-Zuhri has doubts]. Verified by: Mostafa Al-
Azhari, Dar Ibn Al-Qayyem, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, 2008. ISBN 9773750795
: hres) (AW ET Ra gb Hye) SOM UES ott ge SUI OTA SE prcelly el]

Le ve sA cdpagendl cell coal cel lo casas cgilenee

[128] Al-Zurqani, Muhammad Abdul-Azim (ca. 1945). Springs of Grati-
tude in the Disciplines of the Quran (Arabic). Verified by: Fawwaz Zamarli,
Home of Arab Book, Beirut, Lebanon, 1995.
cl GUN jlo bj ids adeell SEI pedal Ae teres cabal pple 5 oliall Jake]

[e ya4o cok C8

[129] Amin, Ahmad (1933). Dawn of Islam (Arabic). Foundation of Hindawi,
Cairo, Egypt, 2012.
[e YeVY cee cSalill cccgltis duwge ceed dor cede! >]

[130] Asad, Muhammad (2005). The Message of the Qur'an. The Book
Foundation, California, USA. ISBN 978-1904510000

[131] Assembly of Islamic Research in Al-Azhar (1973). Middlemost
Exegesis of the Noble Quran (Arabic). Al-Mushaf Al-Shareef Printers, Cairo,
Egypt, 1973. :

Bali) iz tI Circa! dees (BSL At Crgred) eres co SU) oT a Lemey!l nisl]
[e Vay cpm

[132] Ataya, Jamal Salih (2007). The Truth about Abrogation and Open-
ness of Text in the Quran (Arabic). Dar Al-Wafaa, Alexandria, Egypt. ISBN:
9771505513
Ay LEY polly dele! WW cligll glo (Glas cle Slee col al cB pail Bry Rew! dis |

Le vse V cpm

A474

REFERENCES

[133] Ayyadd ibn Moussa (ca. 1125). Healthiness in Recognizing the Rights
of the Chosen (Arabic). Verifier: Abduh Kushak, Dubai International Prize
for Quran (publisher), Dubai, United Arab Emirates, 2013.
ao! cg? ble tpl (ELE WS oe : pire (eH CR Gole (giles! Spi> Cz ay Lidl]

[pV V¥ cdtrcall dyall OLY «eo oenSl Tal

[134] Burton, John (1990). The Sources of Islamic Law - Islamic Theo-
ries of Abrogation. Edinburgh University Press, Edinburgh, Scotland. ISBN
9780748601080

[135] Daruza, Muhammad Azza (1961). Modern Exegesis - Order of
Chapters per Revelation (Arabic). Home of Islamic West, Beirut, Lebanon
(2000).
cold 69 ee yl wl gle «33992 as dru da pst err yee ae - Egder| ent)

[eyes

[136] Farghali, Dr. Muhammad Mahmoud (1976). Abrogation between
Affirmation and Rejection (Arabic). Home of University Book, Egypt.

[e VAVA cpee ¢ casboll eI I> Ed aparece dares > ¢ ciilly OEY oe coll]

[137] Hammad, Dr. Omar (2017). Ibn Al-Hassar and His Position regarding
Abrogation (Arabic). Magazine of Islamic University for Juristic Sciences,
addendum to issue 183 (part 3), Islamic University, Medina, Saudi Arabia.
diall Gols cae eS pp du YI daoles| des (slo pr 8 Gell Cyt Aabyey jlesss| oll

[e ye\V (Ad gaundl ¢Bygrall dy tell Aw decled! «(SWI spl) \AY

[138] Hamza, Muhammad (1979). Studies in Rulings and Abrogation in
the noble Quran (Arabic). Dar Qutaiba, Beirut, Lebanon.

[e VAV4 cold cg cad lo Sper eres coy ola 3 ally aisVi lols]

[139] Hasaballah, Aly (1964). Origins of Islamic Jurisprudence (Arabic).
Dar Al-Maaref, Cairo, Egypt.
Le Vane Cpe Ball Bled! jlo call Gam gle LY etal Spel]

[140] Ibn Abd Albarr, Abu-Umar (ca. 1050). Introduction to what in
Al-Muwatta of meanings and attribution (Arabic). Verified by: Osama ibn
Ibrahim, Al-Farouq Al-Hadeetha Publishers, Cairo, Egypt, 2008.

SV AE ot ares og WN ne opt tgs ae gel IL) sles Ubyall BS nel

[e YerA cpae Salil (dgtoll Syl coat lel on Salk 1 Gpied 'gee I Sl

[141] Ibn Abi-Alizz, Ali (ca. 1300). Explanation of the Tahawi Doctrine

(Arabic). Verified by: Nasir Al-Din Al-Albani and others, Islamic Office,
Beirut, Lebanon, 1984.

REFERENCES

(ey eK! oes sil cel pel 1 Opdd>eod op gil on! ge cAyglelal}| ceeres)| cr]
Le AA cold Coy

[142] Ibn Abi-Hatem, Abdul-Rahman (ca. 938). Exegesis of the Grand
Quran (Arabic). Verified by: Asaad Al-Tayyeb, Library of Nezar Al-Baz,
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, 1997.

Np RSs eda) des deeds gdeesll cosh pS Cath oil Gey AE cedaell Tall ns]
Le VARY chayenll dal XL ob GLI

[143] Ibn Adel (ca. 1500). The Cores in the Sciences of the Book (Arabic).
Verified by: Adel Abdel-Mawgood and Aly Muawwadh, Home of Scientific
Books, Beirut, Lebanon, 1998.
ls 6 ye gre ey eee) ws Jale 1 Ophionel «dale on! gs CR rt cok ase oe cl]

[- VASA cold 9 yas vit ese

[144] Ibn Al-Arabi, Abu-Bakr (ca. 1150). The Abrogating and the Ab-
rogated (Arabic). Verified by: Abd-Alkabeer Al-Madaghri, Bookstore of
Religious Culture, Cairo, Egypt, 2006.

BAW) Awl BLE Ae cs ededl SUI Le 2 adeeell cota oth Ry gel ce pecelly ell]
[eves 4 Cpe

[145] Ibn Al-Arabi, Abu-Bakr (ca. 1150). Rulings of the Quran (Arabic).
Verified by: Muhammad Atta, Home of Scientific Books, Beirut, Lebanon,
2003.

cobs C9 et Prevees)| eI gle cle ders 1 Gao 'ot! on! a) re cola Soi]
[eyeer

[146] Ibn Al-Barezi, Sharaf Al-Deen (ca. 1350). The Abrogator in the
Dear Quran and its Abrogated (Arabic). Verified by: Hatem Al-Dhamen,
Foundation of the Message, Beirut, Lebanon, 1985.

Det damage ccpeleall pile spares Si Get pl Bye catpecey pill ola) aol]
[e V4AG Oks (ye

[147] Ibn Al-Jawzi, Abul-Faraj (ca. 1200). The Abrogating of the Quran
(Arabic). Verified by: Muhammad Al-Melbari, Islamic University, Medina,
Saudi Arabia, 1984.

Bygioll Ryle dLY deabesl! ctl daree :Gieell sigendl gal gyi gh coll ely]
Le VANE cArgmell

[148] Ibn Al-Jawzi, Abul-Faraj (ca. 1200). The Gist in the Hands of
the People of Conviction Regarding the Discipline of the Abrogating and
the Abrogated (Arabic). Verified by: Hatem Al-Dhamen, Foundation of the
Message, Beirut, Lebanon, 1984.

REFERENCES

ctl pile: piel Sipe cel CA gel ce peally cent phe GB ep fal Sb tell]
Le VAAE cold oye DLS daenge

[149] Ibn Al-Najjar, Muhammad ibn Ahmad (ca. 1550). Explanation
of the Bright Planet (Arabic). Verified by: Muhammad Al-Zahili and Nazih
Hammad, Al-Obeikan Bookstore / Ministry of Islamic Affairs, Riyadh,
Saudi Arabia, 1997.

Le caer aajiy hey) dere soldbreal! GERD opt dood gp dearer Gard 5! 04]
[oe VAAV cAdgeedl cobs ded YW gtd Syhjg | lS

[150] Ibn Al-Qayyim, Muhammad (ca. 1350). Informing the Reporters
from the Lord of the Worlds (Arabic). Verified by: Abu-Ubayda Aal Salman,
Dar Ibn Al-Jawzi, Dammam, Saudi Arabia, 2002.
coir cel jlo colele ST bane gh: Gare endl opt Aaree ell Sy ge cuigall pdhel]

[e yery (Ap dgnunl cpl

[151] Ibn Al-Qayyim, Muhammad (ca. 1350). Degrees of Pursuers (Ara-
bic). Verified by: Muhammad AlBaghdadi, Home of the Arabic Book,
Beirut, Lebanon, 2003.

ccoepl USI jlo cqsslti AU pratnall dere i gdceall pall yeh dapee oy Slell cola
[e Yuu¥ cok 9 yas

[152] Ibn Al-Wazir, Muhammad (ca. 1436). Safeguards and Breakers
in Defense of the Sunna of Abulqasim (Arabic). Verified by: Shuaib Al-
Arnaoot, Al-Risla Foundation, Beirut, Lebanon, 1992.
cae ali Ctigll oyth patel op tarer ell oh de ge Gill 5 pelyilly pele]

Le \9ay caked ccegey «MLS dege « ogi

[153] Ibn Ashur, Muhammad AI-Tahir (1984). Exegesis of liberation and
enlightenment (Arabic). Tunisian Home for Publications, Tunis, 1984.

Le VAAL cnigh Ca Anil Nc ypBile cpp PUES! Aeree Co settly pill pent]

[154] Ibn Atiya, Abdul-Haqgq (ca. 1150). The Brief Edition in the Exegesis
of the Dear Quran (Arabic). Home of Scientific Books, Beirut, Lebanon,
2001.

No cited Le ped! es Gdoelledyee op Go AE cpypll CLS ent Spell ype]
[e Yee) cok 6a Prevees)| eI

(155) Ibn Hajar, Ahmad (ca. 1450). Inspiration of the Creator into Expla-
nation of the Authentic Compilation of Al-Bukhari (Arabic). Verified by:
Abd-Alaziz Ibn Baz, Dar Al-Maarefa, Beirut, Lebanon, 1960 (original).

glo GL op jap) Le: Gael (Sa pe ay! dol 6S yeast ae or si es]
[Whe ¢ Vas cold cog cde

ATT

REFERENCES

[156] Ibn Hajar, Ahmad (ca. 1450). Lofty Requirements regarding the
Extra Narrations of the Eight Compilation Books (Arabic). Verified by:
Saad ibn Naser Al-Shathry, Dar Al-Aasima Publisher and Dar Al-Ghaith
Publisher, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, 1419 A.H (1998 A.D.).

JN0 CSRS) pol ee: Ghreadl Skull oem ol decd sll glee! lye ALS! Sues]
[p VAAN» VEV8 chapel dal] Seal DLN caus stall Eas) log auiglly pha darclal

[157] Ibn Hajar, Ahmad (ca. 1450). Taqrib Al-Tahzib (Arabic). Verified by:
Sagheer Ahmad Shaghef, Dar Al-Aasima Publisher, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia,
missing publication date.
pa declal slo able tel pee girl (Mba pe opth teod «dg 8]

[2s Gey We agreed daall Slash ols) cauissly

[158] Ibn Hajar, Ahmad (ca. 1450). Levels of Inserters (Arabic). Verified
by: Assem Al-Qaryuti, Maktabat Al-Manar, Al-Zarqaa, Jordan, 1984.
colby Sl Lead) Axe 'suyall mole > 1 Gaon)! (orbs) pa cyl nes (pelted) lib]

[e \AEA coal

[159] Ibn Hajar, Ahmad (ca. 1450). Tahzib Al-Tahzib (Arabic). Home of
Islamic Book, Cairo, Egypt, 1993.
[eV 8ay pee Bald) CLS jlo CS prem cpl dood odd! ul]

[160] Ibn Hanbal, Ahmad (ca. 800). The Categorized Sunna Reports by
Ahmad Ibn Hanbal (Arabic). Verified by: Shuayb Al-Arnaoot and Adel
Murshid, Foundation of the Message, Beirut, Lebanon, 2009.
pereny<) 6d 0 doles boy §iNI epee set Qld SI thi co dori (hee oF ees ely dane |]

[e Yond cok (a LoS

[161] Ibn Hibban, Abu-Hatim Muhammad (ca. 950). The Authentic
Hadiths by Ibn Hibban - per Ibn Balban's ordering (Arabic). Verified by:
Shuaib Al- Arnaoot, Foundation of the Message, Beirut, Lebanon, 1988.
dimen ba dogg NI re 1 GaoxS| (Qh Cn teow re re cobb cy! Sd - ole cyl ae]

[e VAAA cold rary DLS

[162] Ibn Hibban, Abu-Hatim Muhammad (ca. 950). The Impeached
Among Narrators (Arabic). Verified by: Hamdi Alsalafi, Dar Al-Samimi for
Publication and Distribution, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, 2000.
cereal I> gabe sta: Gabel COLE Gg deren Se gh ode oe Geyeeall CLT

[e Yous cdsgendl «obit cauigly tall

163] Ibn Kathir, Ismail ibn Omar (ca. 1350). Exegesis of the Great Quran

(Arabic). Verified by: Sami Al-Salama, Dar Taibah, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia,
1999.

REFERENCES

B12 EMS gale: Giresdl RAT Ctl pe& ot rt lent CET cyl pent) pall oll) nt]
Le 1994 cAdgeedl «polis dade

[164] Ibn Kathir, Ismail ibn Omar (ca. 1350). Narrations sourced to
AlLFarug (Arabic). Verified by: Imam ibn Ali ibn Imam, Dar Al-Falah,
Al-Fayyoum, Egypt, 2009.

Cod cul ala cal) cy Gee cp el 1 pores) BT op po cp felew!) (by lal sw]
[erov/ye\ sr sSU sly EL By op Ted Cree cagedll OL Gandy coll

[165] Ibn Khuzayma, Muhammad ibn Ishaq (ca. 900). The Authentic
Hadiths by Ibn Kuzayma (Arabic). Verified by: Muhammad Al-Aazami,
The Islamic Bureau, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, 2003.

(ey eS! (gee deus 1 GaowS| dag oF Gow) o barns (Aa oy! ae]
[e Yoh cdsgendl cbt

[166] Ibn Majah, Muhammad ibn Yazid (ca. 850). The Sunan by Ibn Ma-
jah (Arabic). Verified by: M. Fouad Abdul-Baqi, Printing Press for Revival
of Arabic Books, Eesa Al-Babi Al-Halabi Bookstore, Cairo, Egypt, 2009.
AeKe yal) CaS clo | dades c cirg pA aoe oy day oy dares AU ue gel Carls oul Gee]

. Le ves 8 cree cB alll cgledl alll come

[167] Ibn Mandah, Muhammad ibn Isshaq (ca. 975). The Book of Faith
(Arabic). Verified by: Ali ibn Naser Al-Faqihi, Al-Risala Foundation, Beirut,
Lebanon, 1985.

DLS le (opel rel Cy eet we TARam cOdkia (iy) Sboew! Cp two cole cL]
: : [e Vado ® NE Obed (9

[168] Ibn Manzur, Muhammad ibn Makram (ca. 1250). The Arab
Tongue (dictionary) (Arabic). Dar Sader Publishers, Beirut, Lebanon, 1883.
Vee coked cage Cle slo cypbene oye eRe cpt aren cpl Star cad gh coyll ghd]

[e \AAY

[169] Ibn Mufleh, Abdullah Muhammad (ca. 1300). Ethical Disciplines
(Arabic). Verified by: Shuaib Al-Arnaoot and Umar Al-Qayyam, Saudi cel-
ebration print, Al-Risala Foundation, Beirut, Lebanon, 1999.
dnb celal prey Ly) Cond teed cipal cole oy dares aU LE chet) G1]

Le 1994 cold cog Mla NN damage (sagen) Sle

[170] Ibn Salama, Abul-Qasim Hibatullah (ca. 1000). The Abrogating
and the Abrogated (Arabic). Verified by: Zuhair Al-Shaweesh and Muham-
mad Kanaan, Islamic Office, Beirut, Lebanon, 1984.

Kall Cale Lacey Giga we) Gees Dade yy AUN dye eel gol Ce pecally, cell]
[e VAAL cold oy (ey

REFERENCES

[171] Ibn Sallam, Abu-Ubaid Al-Qasim (ca. 800). The Abrogating and
the Abrogated in the dear Quran (Arabic). Verified by: Muhammad Al-
Mudayfar, Al-Rushd Bookstore, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, 1997.

CABS LK Cited dooce: Gioeall cpt oye all de gel Copel TANS Epecally cell]
[eo V8aV chogendl «eb

[172] Ibn Taymia, Ahmad (ca. 1350). Collection of Edicts (Arabic). Veri-
fied by: Amer Al-Gazzar and Anwar Al-Baz, Dar Al-Wafaa, Al-Mansoura,
Egypt, 1997.
cpr Byyrarell clash jlo lil ail sleet ple :olideeall deed op teed cogil gpeme]

[> vaay

[173] Ibn Taymia, Ahmad (ca. 1350). Abiding by the Straight Path (Ara-
bic). Verified by: Nasser Al-Aql, Dar Ishbilia, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, 1998.
CAdgneell egal) clabeedtl lo baal) poli: gdoeall dead Gp earl pedienell bipall clea]

[eo aaa

[174] Ibn Taymia, Ahmad (ca. 1350). Narrations of Storytellers (Arabic).
Verified by: Ahmad Bagour, Egyptian Lebanese Home, Cairo, Egypt, 1993.
ones cb alas Proje) Ay ool] wut cyl cer 1 Ghee)! (Aged oO dal clei elt]

[e yaar

[175] Ibn Taymia, Ahmad (ca. 1350). The Big Exegesis (Arabic). Verified
by: Abdul-Rahman Umeira, Home of Scientific Books, Beirut, Lebanon,
2008.
cok 9 rat Prueees) eI gle 68 ne opel Ase 1 Gio fr eeen) cor dal SSI pentcll J

[oe yesA

[176] Ibn Uthaymin, Muhammad ibn Saleh Explanation of Gardens of
the Righteous from the Words of the Master of Messengers (Arabic). Madar
Al-Watan for Publication, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, 2005.
ches Cpa absll hte cppontalt le Cp Aree ole ol Ape eos oF oplell oly ce]

[ ? Yuuo (Ad gaudl dy sl ISL

[177] Ibn Uthaymin, Muhammad ibn Saleh Exegesis of the Noble Quran
(Arabic). Dar Ibn Al-Jawzi, Dammam, Saudi Arabia, 2005.

[pyre chogedl cele! csigrl eel slo ecm elle op teres 6 SI Tal nt]

[178] Ibrahim, Ahmed (1939). The Discipline of Foundations of Deduction
(Arabic). Dar Al-Ansar, Cairo, Egypt.

Le Vara cpeae cSpalll «sles lo cB able! tact caiall Inet be]

REFERENCES

[179] Ibrahim, Ahmed (1928). Judicial Ways in Islamic Jurisprudence
(Arabic). Salafi Press and its Bookstore, Cairo, Egypt.

cae pla) clgeeSay GAL dade! HY pails ter T dL dy tl a claill bb]

[e Vara

[180] Imara, Muhammad (2010). Facts and Doubts about Meaning of
Abrogation in the Noble Quran (Arabic). Dar Al-Salam for Printing and
Publication, Cairo, Egypt.
copa ¢ pally del LU Pru! jlo By LaS Aarne 'mS ola re el ow JSs> leds Gilie ]

[e Yule Cpe

[181] Ismail, Shaaban (1988). Theory of Abrogation in Heavenly Laws
(Arabic). Dar Al-Salam for Printing and Publication, Cairo, Egypt.

6 pee cb all ee) dcL bu Pell jie 6 hye Lew! dares Qhaw cAyglanll ale oe al 4, 133]

Le VAAA

{182} Jumaa, Dr. Ali (2005). Abrogation per the Foundationists (Arabic).
Nahdat Misr Bookstore, Egypt.
[e Yuro (poe ca pla] pas dogs AS (dre gs so compel ue cell]

[183] Khallaf, Abdul-Wahab (1968). The Discipline of Foundations of
Deduction (Arabic). Al-Dar Al-Kuwaitiya Lel-Nashr, Kuwait.
Laat) dada aS casigilly pally Sele Sy Ll BIE lag ye cadall pol ple]
[e ana

[184] Makki Ibn Abi-Talib, (ca. 1050). Explanation of the Abrogating in
the Quran and its Abrogated (Arabic). Verified by: Ahmad Farahat, Dar
Al-Manara, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia 1986.
cbde cBybeall plo cole d dood spiel dle gil OF GR et peiey TA eel Cle]

[e 4A (Ap dgaunl

[185] Malik Ibn Anas (ca. 750). Al-Muattaa (Arabic). Verified by: Muham-
mad Abdul-Baqi, Home of Revival of Arab Heritage, Beirut, Lebanon, 1985.

COS Sige cual Slall clad jlo qa! Le ols toe geal ail yy Wl olga]
[e \4Ae

[186] Mostafa, Dr. Muhammad Salih Ali (1988). Abrogation in the
Noble Quran - Its Concept, History and Claims (Arabic). Dar Al-Qalam,
Damascus, Syria.

6 Gad (etal le ey) gt le dere .5 colglesy aru yliy Aaggas - mS) oll ea cel]

Le VAAN clyges

REFERENCES

[187] Mujahid ibn Jabr (ca. 700). Exegesis of Imam Mujahid (Arabic).
Modern Home of Islamic Thought, Cairo, Egypt, 1989.

BALAI Cato ede Sal jlo cell gpl decee t plowed aor cpp Ublaee Clales PLY andi]

: Le VAAa cee

[188] Mulhim, Badr Nabil (2015). Islamic Conquests in the era of the
Rashedeen (Arabic). Dar Al-Iesar Al-IImi, Amman, Jordan.

[pve de coal color cccaball Lae Yl slo cprebe ed yy cy ttlsl age 3 SADLY Skea]

[189] Muslim ibn Al-Hajjaj (ca. 875). Authenticated Hadiths by Muslim
(Arabic). Verified by: Abu-Qutayba Al-Farayabi, Dar Teeba, Riyadh, Saudi
Arabia, 2006.

A glee AU yey ye Sea ye lull fay cell ope parrrell peprevall Jewell) glint cere]
(Ad grundl cell cay' jlo 'ela id yl + GhowS| 605.198 Lams o bel oO eis (pling ade
[e yest

[190] Nada, Muhammad Mahmoud (1996). Abrogation in the Quran
between Supporters and Objectors (Arabic). Bookstore of Arabic Home for
Books, Cairo, Egypt. ISBN 9775366860
Bal) (OLS dy yall jl) Ae IAS ageree Aarne Cprrylectly cubbesl cae gLall 3 awl]

Ce V447 «pee

[191] Qutb, Sayyed (1973). In the Shades of the Quran (Arabic). Dar
Al-Shorougq, Beirut, Lebanon.
Le VaVT cokes cog ¢ Byptll jo cada Ae « oL all Jub 3]

[192] Rana, Dr. M. Akram (1999). The Hanafi Doctrine of Abrogation
(article), Hamdard Islamicus, Volume 22 (1999) No. 3, pp. 67-70, Hamdard
Foundation, Karachi, Pakistan. ISSN: 0250-7196

[193] Rida, Muhammad Rashid (1947). Al-Manar Exegesis (Arabic). Dar
Al-Manar, 14 Inshaa Street, Cairo, Egypt.
[e \AEV pee ca pla] cslasy| gle 14 ¢ yea gle clay hp y drs cyeed) pent ]

[194] Sabeq, Al-Sayyed (2004). Comprehension of the Sunna (Arabic). Dar
Al-Hadith, Cairo, Egypt.
[e Yond cae SPL) ceytosdl slo ciple Aged! dnd) aii]

[195] Salih, Dr. Ayman Ali (2003). Critical Reading in Expressional Text in
Fundamentalist Thought (Arabic article), Contemporary Islamic Thought
(Islamized Knowledge). Volume 9, Issues 33-34, 47-90, International Insti-
tute of Islamic Thought, Virginia, USA, October 1 2003.

REFERENCES

PLY Sal gdb le gal oo dle) ye Salo Gall clas 3 das Bl]
CL pad cee yl Rei al gral! 648 CEPT ode 64 Meee c(db roll Adel) pelea
Le vee pI) cddrcadl OLY

[196] Shaker, Ahmad (2005). Principal of Exegesis (Arabic). Dar Al-Wafaa.
Al-Mansura, Egypt, 2005.

[eve se Cues ciyprarell coliglh glo SUS Aad CaS cyl LiL 6 janis) Bee]

[197] Shaker, Ahmad (-). The Categorized Sunna Reports by Ahmad
Ibn Hanbal (Arabic). Home of Knowledge, Egypt, 1954.

[e \4o%g pee Sled jlo cS Le peee| thee oF gst ele ime |]

[198] Shaltout, Mahmoud (1987). Islam, a Belief and a Jurisprudence
(Arabic). Dar Al-Shorouq. Cairo, Egypt, 1987.

[e VAAV coe CBA (by tS) jlo gts ageres caer udy Bue ee Yi]

[199] Shula, Abu-Abdullah (ca. 1250). The Gist of the Well Versed in
the Discipline of the Abrogated and the Abrogating (Arabic). Verified by:
Muhammad Faris, Bookstore of Religious Culture, Cairo, Egypt, 1995.
ABLE AS (yb deree spiel Mad aU ae gel aatdly Epncall ple a Kell ie]

[e V94O «pee cb ala Ag Ul

[200] Sunstein, Cass R. (2019). Conformity. New York University Press,
New York, USA. ISBN 978-1-4798-6783-7.

[201] Supreme Council on Islamic Affairs - Committee of Quran and
Sunna (1995). Selection in the Exegesis of the Noble Quran (Arabic). Dar
Al-Thaqafa, Doha, Qatar.

No chan Yh yet LEM palrel! dielly GLA Bed oS) Tal ed Coe]
[e \44o es) camel ¢ d5Léss|

[202] Tahir, Hani (2000). Sanctifying the Verses of the Quran from Abroga-
tion and Inadequacy (Arabic). Ahmadi Islamic Group in The Holy Lands,
Palestine.

Chediall shall go RON OLY dele lb Se colaily audll ye olall ol ays]
[pos agplanls

[203] Waliyullah, Ahmad Shah (ca. 1750). The Great Gain in Foundations
of Exegesis (Arabic). Dar Al-Ghawthany Publishers, Damascus, Syria, 2008.
hyper oper AT SLAW SBI slo AU Sy old ard Gantt Spel 3 SU ipa]

: : : [eyes

REFERENCES

[204] Waliyullah, Ahmad Shah (ca. 1750). The Ultimate Proof of
God (Arabic). Verifier: Al-Sayyed Sabiq, Home of the Generation, Beirut,
Lebanon, 2005.

[pve 2e cold ceige cert slo cule dell pireall alll ly ol chose! (tat) alll do]

[205] Wensinck, Arend Yan (1936). Concordance et indices de la Tradition
musulmane. Brill Academic Publishers, Leiden, Netherlands, 1936.
[earn cladge cod

[206] Zeid, Dr. Mostafa (1987). Abrogation in the Noble Quran (Arabic).
Dar Al-Wafaa, Mansoura, Egypt.

Le \AAV cpeae ciyprarell coligll lo cobes pillamee 22 ces SUI Tall cell]
(207| Zuhair, Dr. Muhammad (2009). Foundations of Deduction (Arabic).

Al-Azharia Bookstore for Heritage, Cairo, Egypt.
[e Yoh cae cS plal Sl al das Ae py yg re Hers .5 (aiill See]

Index

Only selected occurrences of words are included in this Index

Three indexes follow:

Index of Terms

List of the main terms that are used in the book, and the pages where
they appear. A boldface page number refers to where the term is
defined.

Index of Persons

Where scholars and other main personalities are mentioned in the
book. A boldface page number refers to a biography of the person.

Index of Verses

Verses in the Quran that are cited in the body of this book, and where
they appear. Verses that are listed in tables throughout the book are
not included. In the electronic copy, the verse number is linked to
an external page that has the verse, its recitation, and its near-literal
translation.

INDEX

INDEX OF TERMS

Index of Terms

aaya, 4, 205, 210-221, 223, 224, 226,
229, 230, 232, 233, 235
abrogation, 3
anti-, see anti-abrogation
by a Prophetic narration, 452
claims, see abrogation claims
conflict-based, 8, 20, 26, 27, 36,
264-265, 271, 304
definitions, 7, 309
doctrine, see Abrogation Doc-
trine
narration-based, 26, 27
of prior scripture, 7, 32, 222-225,

454-455

of recitation but not ruling, 33,
450-452

of ruling and recitation, 33, 450—

of ruling but not recitation, 10,
241-245, 267, 295, 330-331,
450, 452
pro-, see pro-abrogation
verse, see abrogation verse
abrogation claims, 4, 8-10, 29
frivolous, see frivolous claims
Abrogation Doctrine, 6, 17, 23, 28,
29, 37, 51, 139, 203, 241,
PAG 255, 260, 271, 272.281;
293, 303, 432, 433, 435
apprehension, 275
burden of proof, 17, 27, 28
abrogation verse, 4, 221—229
accidental killing, 176-178
actually occurred - lew gly, 30, 453
adjucation
for non-Muslims, 144-146
adultery, 76
Al-Aqsa Mosque, 33, 137
Al-badaa, 13, 14, 244
Al-Muattaa, 100, 285
Al-Musnad, 285, 286
Al-Suyuti's Twenty, 136, 311-312
AlL-Taif, 431
almsgiving, 92, 186, 186-190
anti-abrogation, 7, 9, 13, 28, 246,

274-276, 432
Apostasy, 424
athar, 312

Badr, 115, 118, 119

battel, 266, 267

bequest, 54, 55, 57, 123-125, 143, 144,
147, 420

bias, 31-32

Bible, 32, 224, 327, 329

bidaa, 291, 304

blanket claims, 186-189

burden of proof, 15, 17, 17—28, 30, 31,
36, 50, 94

calf, 217, 218

Caliph, 96, 99, 326

call to arms, 150, 422

cascade, 288-293, 301

certain in sourcing, 70, 80, 84, 175,
451, 452

charity - @1., 187-189

chronology, 41, 154, 185

compensating husbands, 155-158

conceptually possible - Suc jl, 30,

conditions for abrogation - el by 4,

conflation, 32-33, 245-248, 293-296

contingency, 185-186

contingency - real ile, 14, 39
conveyance - jas!, 22, 101

debauchery penalty, 75-85, 390

default allowance - rae acl JI, 64, 65

diligent reading - ¢|,a.'Y|, 25

dinar, 95, 321

dirham, 95, 321

divorce, 370, 371

doomed and dooming - Kal, Ss,
255-257, 332-336

elaboration, 36, 150, 182-183, 313-

erasure, 235

exception, 36, 183

INDEX

INDEX OF TERMS

exegete, 166
expiation, 92, 93, 97, 98, 177, 178

fasting, 358-360, 362-367
fasting exemptions, 70-75, 316
fasting night, 140-141
fasting ransom, 358-366
fatalist, see qadari
fate of non-Muslims, 167-169
fighting obligation, 148-150
fitna, 291, 292
food
allowed, 159-161
forbidden, 162-164
forgetfulness, 237-238, 330
fornication, 76, 77-80, 82-85
marriage, 150-153
Foundations of Deduction, 23, 248,

Friday prayer, 429
frivolous claims, 34, 181, 190-194

Gharaneeq, 190, 297, 299, 301-303
Gospel, 214-216, 226, 278
grace period

divorce, 53, 369-371

widow, 52, 53, 56, 57, 59, 60

hadith, 7, 92, 95, 96, 118, 125, 312,
322,525,090; o02; 000; a01,
375, 431-434

hagqq, 44, 266, 303, 305

harvest, 189

Hereafter, 45

hijra, 117-119

hijri, 10, 11, 44, 74, 84, 100, 106-108,
135, 137, 209, 220, 243, 248,
251, 260, 261, 284, 287, 288,
293, 298, 300, 311, 330, 335,

history, 10-11

hizb, 225

homosexual acts, 77-80, 84, 85

hypocrites, 191

Imam, 10
imitation, 288-293
imposition - ~Jtdl, 243, 256, 332

inauthentic narrations, 92, 95-101,
184, 208, 209, 227, 233, 236,
284-288, 298, 299
indication by necessity - -La3Y! JYo,
iS, 227
inference by contrast - Wl» oJ! psgis,
64, 65, 66, 69
inheritance, 52-54, 57, 60, 122-127,
137, 142-144, 355, 393-396,
398, 420
Islamic law, 125, 127
promises of, 142-144
interpretation
anti-abrogation, 221-226, 230-

pro-abrogation, 226-229
intoxication and prayer, 9, 62—70
Islamic calendar, 437
Islamic history, vii, 11, 19, 25, 61, 99,
107, 118, 137, 276, 281, 282,
284, 292, 297, 304
Islamic jurisprudence, vii, 3, 4, 8, 13,

Jerusalem, 20, 33, 137-139, 228, 246,
352, 353, 442, 454
jizya, 134, 135

Kaaba, 233
khair, 224, 455
khul-a, 183, 328
Kufa, 431

lack of designation, 272—273, 309
leaving a will, 121-127

license, 36, 106

lowering gaze, 425

maiden, 80, 82, 83
marriage prohibition, 153-155
Mecca, 20, 137-139, 206, 231, 233,
246, 353
Medina, 57, 138, 206, 209, 223, 224,
233, 234, 317
Medinite, 118
meritorious claims, 42
methodology, 6, 29-47
analysis-based, 42—47
rule-based, 35-41

INDEX

INDEX OF TERMS

miracle, 211-213

Moata, 108

monasticism - 43le\, 45, 315-316

mourning, 56

Mufti, 274, 275, 435

Muharram, 74

murder, 399-415
Hereafter retribution, 173-176
worldly retribution, 170-173

naskh, 3, 4, 5, 14, 25, 26, 36, 37, 69,
73, 88, 89, 94-98, 117, 120,
$25, 126, 132, 160, 133,205,
229, 246-248, 250, 252, 255,
257-261, 276, 277, 282-285,
288, 290, 295, 296, 309, 323,
324, 327, 331, 349, 350, 356,
383, 422, 425, 427, 428, 431,
436, 453

night prayer, 111-120, 324

non-maiden, 80, 82, 83

passages, 203
people of the Scripture, 183, 327, 329
food, 421

piety, 44, 45

poets, 5

polyseme, 125

polytheists, 127-132, 134-136, 155,
E58, 168, 232), 233... $27

pork, 160, 162, 326-327

practical impact, 303

prayer direction, see qibla

pre-authentication era, 100-101

pre-Islamic era - dJab!, 56, 123, 454

predecessors - Cilus!, 26, 89, 283

preponderance - eal, 14

previous scripture, 214-217

priority of reconciliation, 21

private consultation - s+L.J!, 91-99,
316-321, 323-324

pro-abrogation, 7, 20, 27, 28, 32, 46,
91, 94, 139, 146, 147, 150,
154, 155, 180, 181, 432, 434

propriety - 44 esl, 122-124

gadari, 243
gibla, 137, 137-139, 209, 352, 353, 370
qiyas, 433

Ramadan, 12, 70-72, 74, 75, 273
rayb, 269
reactive devaluation, 292
reconciliation
priority of, see priority of recon-
ciliation
retribution - zledl, 171-173
revelation
circumstances of, 57, 84, 152,
157, 205, 205-209, 317,
318, 328
order of, 41, 57, 58, 111, 154,
185, 233, 446
ruling in a verse - I , 217-221
ruling versus recitation, 241-245

sacred month - alps esl, 135, 135-

Sacrosanct Mosque, 33, 135-139, 352
Safa and Marwa, 190, 191
sameness, 37, 183
school of thought, 5, 8, 10, 14, 431,
433, 435
sect, 8
self abrogation, 193
semantic ambiguity, 5, 25, 282
shakk, 269
shirk, 407, 411, 412, 414
significance - JY.UI
certain, 25
uncertain, 22, 25, 27
singles, 23, 155, 163, 451, 452
sourcing - 3 )¢Jl
certain, 23
uncertain, 22, 23, 27, 33, 41, 80,
81, 451, 452
specifying a generality, 36, 89, 182
spoils of war, 158, 191
statement of fact, 40, 184-185
steadfastness in battle, 101-111
substitution verse, 204, 229-233
sunna, 189, 194, 195, 197-199, 293,
314;,,.431,.453
sword verse, 11, 34, 127-133, 177, 186,

temporariness, 38, 186
thought accountability, 85-90

INDEX

INDEX OF TERMS

Torah, 7, 214-216, 223, 226, 230, 234,
247, 273, 278, 454
transgression, 178-180

unanimity, 249-254
abrogation by, 453
uncertainty in significance, see signif-
icance - uncertain
uncertainty in sourcing, see sourcing -
uncertain
unforgivable sins, 164-166

validation rules, 35, 35, 46
Chronology (Rule 6), 41, 43, 57,
147, 185
Contingency (Rule 4), 39, 184,
310, 320
Elaboration (Rule 1), 36, 47, 98,
123, 161, 182, 248, 319
Facts (Rule 5), 40, 43, 68, 88, 89,
106, 131, 138, 163, 165-167,
169, 174, 259
Sameness (Rule 2), 37, 47, 116,
147, 172, 184, 191
Temporariness (Rule 3), 38
visiting the graves, 7, 13, 32, 310, 453

widow's residence, 51-62, 228, 295,
300-301, 372-374, 376, 378,

wills, 54, 353-357, 372-374, 378, 379
enforcement, 192-193
witnesses, 146-148

Yarmuk, 107, 108, 110
Zahiri, 433
zakah, 92, 97, 135, 186-190

also, see almsgiving
zakat-ul-fitr, 75

INDEX

INDEX OF PERSONS

Index of Persons

Abduh, Muhammad, 85, 211-213,
274, 435
Muhebb-Aldin Abu-Albaqaa, 93, 457
Abu-Bakr Al-Siddiq (RA), 107, 108
Abu-Dawoud, Sulayman ibn Al-
Ashaath, 69, 92, 95, 116,
117, 152, 174, 184, 258, 285,
325, 331, 349, 354, 361, 362,
368, 371-373, 391, 393, 397,
398, 403, 418, 422-424, 426,
427, 429, 438, 457
Abu-Elela, Muhammad Mostafa, 211,
329, 458
Abu-Hanifa, Al-Numan, 5, 10, 14,
18, 36, 64, 100, 143, 144,
147, 170, 178, 260, 284, 287,
289, 296, 302, 394, 397, 420,
431, 431, 433
Abu-Hurayra, 380-383, 430
Abu-Khaythama, Zuhair ibn Harb Al-
Nasai, 255, 333, 458
Abu-Zahra, Muhammad, 53, 64, 275,
444, 458
Afana, Jawad Musa, 78, 118, 243, 274,
293, 296, 331, 335, 444, 458
Assembly of Islamic Research in Al-
Azhar, 93, 94, 215, 299, 474
Aisha bint Abi-Bakr (RA), 23, 116-
119, 154, 260, 428, 449, 451,

Badr Al-Deen Mahmoud,
253, 458
Al-Ajhuri, Atiyya, 100, 443, 458
Al-Albani, Nasir Al-Din, 54, 96, 108,
109, 125, 184, 238, 255, 256,
271, 298-300, 317, 329, 330,
332,333, 331, 302, 304, B58;
359, 361, 366, 368, 370-373,
391, 393, 397, 403, 405, 406,
409, 413-416, 418, 422-425,
427, 429, 430, 458, 459
Al-Amidi, Saif Al-Din Ali, 20, 64, 65,
255, 309, 441, 459
Al-Andalusi, Muhammad Ibn Hazm,
42, 46, 100, 102, 149, 167,
170, 173, 177, 255, 433, 439,

Al-Aini,

Al-Arid, Ali Hasan, 44, 45, 47, 61, 75,
90, 126, 147, 148, 150, 152,
155, 157, 158, 212, 216, 229,
255, 267, 291, 295, 432, 444,
451, 460

Al-Urmawi, Muhammad ibn AI-
Hussein, 310, 441, 472

Al-Arnaoot, Shuaib, 174, 184, 354,
361, 365, 368, 371-373,
387, 391-394, 397, 398, 403,
407-409, 418, 419, 421-424,
426, 427, 429

Al-Asfahani, Abu-Muslim, 11, 60, 78,
85, 103, 104, 110, 123, 143,
216, 224, 249-252, 266, 275,
276, 290, 294, 300, 310, 318,
320, 354, 432, 433, 439, 460

Al-Awzaei, Abdul-Rahman ibn Amr,

Al-Azimabadi, Sharaf Al-Haqq, 363,

Al-Baghawi, Al-Hussein ibn
Masseoud, 74, 76, 93,

98, 100, 207, 215, 218, 222,
225, 227, 228, 235, 267,
277, 298, 316, 317, 440, 460

Al-Baghdadi, Abdul-Qaher, 52, 100,
161, 300, 440, 450, 460

Al-Bahiyy, Dr. Muhammad, 12, 78,
85, 275, 318, 444, 460

Al-Bahussein, Dr. Yaaqoub, 18, 460

Al-Baji, Suleiman ibn Khalaf, 300,

Al-Banna, Dr. Jamal, 213, 274, 303,
444, 461

Al-Basri, Al-Hasan, 56, 81, 82, 84,
161, 166, 353, 354, 383, 386,

Al-Baydawi, Nasir Al-Din, 24, 78,
100, 129, 222, 227, 267, 298,
310, 318-320, 441, 461

Al-Bayhaqi, Abu-Bakr Ahmad ibn
Al-Hussein, 335, 356, 461

Al-Bazzar, Abu-Bakr Ahmad ibn
Amr, 390, 461

INDEX

INDEX OF PERSONS

Al-Bukhari, Muhammad ibn Isamil,
5, 56, 58-60, 67, 74, 84,
87, 92, 95, 96, 100, 105,
108, 109, 124, 175, 219, 252,
253, 259, 284, 285, 287, 302,
320, 322, 325, 337, 349, 351,
356, 357, 359-362, 366, 373,
375, 377, 379, 382-385, 389,
394-396, 400, 402, 410-412,
414, 427, 432, 432, 438,
449, 454, 462

Al-Dabbusi, Abu-Zeid, 18, 462

Al-Dahhak ibn Muzahim, 187, 334,
335, 354

Al-Daraqutni, Ali ibn Umar,
363-365, 439, 462

Al-Dominy, Dr. Misfir, 125, 462

Majd AlDin AlFairuzabadi,
446, 463

Al-Ghali, Husam Rushdi, 29, 53, 67,
87, 108, 112, 115, 130, 134,
136, 151, 251, 273, 274, 291,
445, 463

Al-Ghazali, Muhammad, 30, 90, 103,
212, 275, 444, 463

Al-Ghazali, Abu-Hamid, 64, 219, 221,
227, 232, 242, 245, 277, 289,
290, 440, 463

Al-Ghornati, Muhammad ibn Yusuf,
62, 69, 78, 83, 100, 117, 118,
207,222, 227, 230, 298, 320;
324, 442, 463

Al-Hakem, Muhammad ibn Abdullah,
101, 138, 321-323, 463

Al-Hamzani, Abu-Bakr, 162, 440, 463

Al-Haythami, Nur-Aldin Ali ibn Abu-
Bakr, 334, 390, 392, 464

Al-Hindi, Rahmat-Allah ibn Khalil,
279, 464

Ali ibn Abi-Talib (RA), 67, 86, 92, 94—
96, 99-101, 188, 255-257,
285, 286, 289, 319-321, 323,
332, 335, 336

Al-Isnawi, Jamal Al-Deen, 21, 30, 97,
310, 318, 442, 464

Al-Jaabari, Abu-Ishaq, 257, 441, 464

Al-Jabri, Abdul-Mutaal, 9, 15, 225,
232, 272, 274, 328, 334, 444,

352,

101,

Al-Jassas, Abu-Bakr, 11, 14, 23, 64,
100, 218, 252, 288, 293, 300,
433, 433, 439, 450, 464, 465

Al-Jawhari, Ismail, 44, 465

Al-Jurashi, Issa ibn Maymoun, 244,

Al-Juwaini, Abul-Maali, 24, 440, 452,

Al-Kalbi, Muhammad ibn AlI-Saib,
251, 200

Al-Khatib, Abdul-Karim, 73, 74, 78,
94, 232, 275, 444, 465

Al-Khazen, Alaa-Aldin Ali, 57, 80,
100, 111, 207, 214, 215, 218,
222, 227, 228, 237, 265, 267,
277, 298, 299, 317, 318, 441,

Al-Khazraji, Ahmad ibn Abdil-
Samad, 100, 157, 158, 178,
179, 184, 185, 291, 292,
440, 465

Al-Khodari, Muhammad Bek, 29, 46,
53, 283, 320, 435, 443, 466

Al-Khorasani, Ataa ibn Abi-Muslim,
59). 139; 150, 351, 358, 354,
356-358, 361, 368, 375, 377,

Al-Karmi, Marei ibn Yusuf, 42, 71,
100, 111, 122, 255, 442, 465

Al-Madani, Muhammad, 78, 85, 443,

Al-Mahalli, Jalal Al-Deen, 317, 434,

Al-Maqdesi, Mujeer AlDin ibn
Muhammad Al-Ulaymi, 76,
82, 92, 97, 183, 222, 227,
267, 317, 320, 352, 442, 466

Al-Maraghi, Ahmad Mustafa, 66, 74,
108, 299, 466

Al-Mazini, Dr. Khaled bin Sulayman,
67, 84, 208, 466

Al-Nahhas, Abu-Jaafar, 19, 20, 30,
40, 46, 52, 56, 63, 71, 76, 80,
89, 100, 106, 110, 111, 126,
139, 144, 147, 148, 156, 161,
162, 169, 176, 182, 184-186,
261, 275, 288, 300, 310, 439,
451, 466

Al-Nakhei, Ibrahim, 145, 170, 418,

INDEX

INDEX OF PERSONS

Al-Nasafi, Abdullah ibn Ahmad, 100,
129, 207, 222, 227, 266-268,
277, 298, 440, 467

Al-Nasai, Ahmad ibn Shuaib, 92, 95,
96, 116, 152, 243, 248, 258,
285, 359, 361, 366, 370, 401,
405, 406, 413, 467

Al-Nimr, Dr. Abdul-Munim, 98, 182,
184, 190, 209, 217, 222, 226,
231, 467

Al-Qaradawi, Dr. Yousuf, 19, 251,
290, 291, 444, 467

Al-Qasimi, Jamal Al-Din, 92, 98, 215,
274, 299, 443, 467

Al-Qattan, Dr. Mannaa, 86, 138, 139,
444, 467

Al-Qazwini, Ahmad ibn Faris, 266,
277, AGT

Al-Qurtubi, Shams Al-Din, 15, 26, 46,
55, 56, 59; 7, 74,100, 106,
110, 111, 115, 144, 150, 158,
187, 207, 218, 319, 299 907,
230,235, 237, 254. 267, 268,
298, 321, 327, 355, 441, 468

Al-Rajjal, Rashid, 220, 468

Al-Razi, Fakhr Al-Din, 60, 69, 78, 81,
84, 85, 89, 97, 103, 105, 110,
113, 123, 174, 176, 208, 212,
222, 227, 229, 233, 237, 266,
275, 277, 298, 300, 320, 432,
441, 468

Al-Seadi, Abdul-Rahman ibn Naser,
188, 443, 469

Al-Sadusi, Qatada ibn Diama, 42, 86,
132, 142, 178, 193, 319, 358,
437, 468

Al-Salih, Dr. Subhi, 19, 444, 450, 468

Al-Samargqandi, Nasr ibn Muham-
mad, 100, 208, 233, 468

Al-Sanaani, Muhammad, 363, 468

Al-Saqqa, Ahmad Hijazi, 98, 193, 274,
320, 444, 469

Al-Sayis, Muhammad Ali, 112, 114,

Al-Shaabi, Amer ibn Shurahil, 145,
170, 178

Al-Shaarawi, Muhammad Mutwalli,
61, 78, 85, 88, 89, 103, 104,

106, 110, 124-126, 171, 214,
222-224, 226, 229, 230, 265,
280, 299, 301, 315, 319, 320,
436, 436, 444, 454, 469

Al-Shafei, Muhammad ibn Idris, 10,
20,. 55, 81, 100, 119, 132,
143, 178, 248, 251, 284, 285,
289, 302, 431, 431, 438,
452, 469

Al-Shatibi, Ibrahim ibn Musa, 24, 26,
247, 259, 469

Al-Shawkani, Muhammad ibn Ali, 93,
98, 100, 124, 148, 150, 165,
319, 443, 470

Al-Shaybani, Muhammad, 312, 470

Al-Shayea, Muhammad ibn Abdul-
Rahman, 269, 470

Al-Shazli, Abu Al-Hasan, 44, 47

Al-Shingeiti, Abdullah, 286, 294, 445,

Al-Suddi, Ismail ibn Abdul-Rahman,
110, 145, 150, 166

Al-Suyuti, Jalal Al-Deen, 9, 11, 23,
34, 42, 52, 62, 69, 71, 78, 85,
86, 102, 121, 122, 125, 133,
135-137, 140, 143, 155, 156,
161, 182, 192, 219, 256, 298,
301,,311,.312, 3296, 332, 334.
395, 362, 391, 392, 434,
434, 442, 446, 470, 471

Al-Suyuti, Jalal Al-Deen, 85

Al-Tabarani,Abul-Qasem, 334, 392,

Al-Tabari, Muhammad ibn Jarir, 11,
39, 40, 52, 54, 56, 59, 62, 73,
79, 82, 85, 87, 89, 99, 100,
102, 108, 110, 114, 119, 125,
126, 137-139, 146, 148, 152,
154, 155, 157, 160, 161, 167,
171, 172, 187, 207, 215, 218,
290, 292, 996-998 929. 935,
247, 242, 2A5. 259) 265, 267,
268, 271, 288, 297, 298, 300,
319, 323, 331, 353, 358, 368,
383, 386, 387, 393, 397, 399,
404, 418, 422, 426, 439, 452,

Al-Tahawi, Ahmad ibn Muhammad,
290, 361, 365, 419, 421, 471

INDEX

INDEX OF PERSONS

Al-Thaalabi, AlHammam Abu-
Isshaq Ahmad, 76, 93, 98,
100, 119, 207, 235, 267,
277, 298, 317, 323, 440, 471

Al-Thaalibi, Abu-Zaid Abdul-
Rahman ibn Muhammad,
82, 88, 89, 92, 93, 98, 100,
120, (235, 237, 245, 265,
268, 277, 298, 442, 472

Al-Thawri, Sufyan, 253, 256, 332

AlLTibi, Al-Hussein ibn Abdillah, 317,
A472

Al-Tirmizi, Muhammad ibn Isa, 54,
56, 92, 95, 125, 139, 155,
285, 361, 415, 432, 472

Al-Alwani, Dr. Taha Jabir, 274, 444,

Al-Wadei, Mugqbil Ibn Hadi, 413, 472

Al-Wahidi, Ali ibn Ahmad, 46, 57, 84,
206, 207, 472

Al-Wagqidi, Muhammad ibn Omar,
107, 473

Al-Zahabi, Muhammad Hussein, 218,
220, 227, 267, 473

Al-Zahabi, Shams AlDin, 81, 243,
244, 287, 322, 351, 352, 473

Al-Zahiri, Ali Ibn Hazm, 11, 18, 19,
41, 57, 64, 103, 105, 109,
110, 123, 249, 269, 272, 273,
275, 282, 289, 300, 301, 315,
354, 419, 433, 440, 473

Al-Zalmi, Dr. Mostafa Ibrahim, 46,
138, 211, 212, 246, 267, 274,
444, 473

Al-Zamakhshari, Abul-Qasim Mah-
moud, 78, 79, 100, 114, 129,
152, 207, 212, 222, 227, 267,
268, 277, 298, 440, 473

Al-Zarkashi, Badr Al-Din, 94, 210,
250, 329, 442, 446, 451, 474

Al-Zuhri, Ibn Shihab, 63, 111, 178,
451, 474

Al-Zurgani, M. Abdul-Azim, 21, 46,
57, 59, 69, 78, 120, 130, 139,
146, 154, 267, 295, 443, 474

Amin, Ahmad, 243, 474

Anas ibn Malik (RA), 67

Asad, Muhammad, 5, 22, 73, 75, 224,
274, 309, 474

Ibn Abi-Rabah, Ataa, 220, 355, 356,
361-365, 376, 418

Ataya, Jamal Salih, 123, 211, 220,
274, 445, 474

Ayyadd ibn Moussa, 299, 474

Burton, John, 63, 475
Daruza, Muhammad, 41, 446, 475

Abbas, Dr. Fadl Hasan, 449, 451, 457

Farghali, Dr. Muhammad M., 21, 52,
205, 208, 249, 250, 252, 267,
294, 301, 444, 475

Hammad, Dr. Omar, 11, 475

Hamza, Muhammad, 61, 445, 475

Hasaballah, Ali, 30, 98, 110, 112, 118-
120: 122. 209.212" 217, 218.
222-231. 232.320; 444, 475

Ibn Abbas, Abdullah (RA), 5, 22, 25,
46, 56, 58, 60, 63, 69, 71,
74, 87, 89, 96, 100, 101,
105, 107-110, 116, 117, 122,
125, 132, 138, 144, 145,
147, 149, 150, 158, 163, 167,
169, 172, 175, 178, 183, 193,
208, 209, 220, 233, 247, 248,
254, 256-261, 269, 283, 290,
296, 323, 327, 328, 332, 334,
335, 349, 351-359, 361-366,
368-373, 375-379, 383-391,
393-428, 430, 431, 431, 437

Ibn Abd-Albarr, Yusuf, 417, 475

Ibn Abi-Alizz, Ali, 271, 475

Ibn Abi-Aruba, Said, 319

Ibn Abi-Bazza, Al-Qasim, 59, 243,

Ibn Abi-Hatem, Abdul-Rahman Al-
Razi, 138, 139, 353, 354,
357, 391, 392, 427, 439, 476

Ibn Abi-Najeeh, Abdullah Ibn Yasar,
59, 243-245, 254, 311, 330,
331, 374-377, 451

Ibn Adel, Umar ibn Ali, 62, 100, 208,
323, 442, 476

Ibn Al-Akwaa, Salama, 359, 360

Ibn AlArabi, Abu-Bakr, 23, 24, 54,
58, 69, 80, 82, 85, 96-99,

INDEX

INDEX OF PERSONS

102, 115, 125, 129, 141, 151,
152, 154, 155, 157, 158, 184,
298, 355, 440, 476

Ibn Al-Barezi, Sharaf A-Deen, 163,
170, 173, 441, 476

Ibn Al-Hassar, Abul-Hasan Ali
ibn Muhammad, 11, 219,
433, 434

Ibn Al-Jawzi, Abul-Faraj, 9, 34, 35,
38, 42, 46, 63, 71, 76, 86, 89,
100, 102, 111, 112, 122, 139,
141-147, 149, 150, 161-163,
166-169, 172, 175, 176, 178,
181-183, 185, 186, 188, 189,
192. 193, 251, 255, 257,258,
300;,309; 352, 365, 368) 372;
394, 426, 441, 452, 476

Ibn Al-Najjar, Muhammad ibn Ah-
mad, 219, 477

Ibn Al-Qayyim, Muhammad ibn Abi-
Bakr, 26, 104, 287-289, 302,

434, 477

Ibn Al-Shakhir, Yazid ibn Abdullah,

Ibn AlWazir, Muhammad ibn
Ibrahim Al-Yamani, 409,
ATT

Ibn Al-Zubair, Abdullah (RA), 58, 59,
252-254, 378-380, 430

Ibn Ashur, Muhammad AlI-Tahir, 71,
74, 76, 84, 87, 105, 113, 114,
157, 171, 208, 222, 224, 235,
237, 268-270, 280, 299, 325,
443, 477

Ibn Aslam, Zaid, 147, 420

Ibn Atiya, Abdul-Haqq, 88, 89, 245,
265, 267, 440, 477

Ibn Hajar, Ahmad, 59, 81, 96, 243,
244) 956,298,322) 331, 332.
SoA al, Boe; B01, OO, ars
384, 387, 389, 397, 423, 430,
442, 477, 478

Ibn Hanbal, Ahmad, 143, 147, 260,
284-286, 289, 302, 317, 322,
337, 393, 354, 382, 383,386,
387, 403, 404, 407, 408, 418,
438, 478

Ibn Hayyan, Mugatil, 97, 319

Ibn Hibban, Abu-Hatim Muhammad,

59, 95, 218, 248, 286, 287,
317, 330;.331,.351,.361, 383,

Ibn Jubair, Said, 144, 147, 327, 335,
358, 365, 388, 389, 393-396,
399-403, 405, 406, 410, 411,
414, 418, 419

Ibn Kathir, Ismail ibn Umar, 51, 60,
61, 67, 76, 88, 89, 97, 100,
102, 112, 114, 119, 147, 148,
152, 166, 207, 214, 219, 220,
222, 235, 265, 271, 277, 298,
300, 319, 373, 385-387, 430,
434, 442, 478, 479

Ibn Khuzayma, Muhammad ibn Is-
shaq, 95, 286, 432, 479

Ibn Majah, Muhammad ibn Yazid, 92,
95, 271, 285, 337, 479

Ibn Mandah, Muhammad ibn Isshaq,

383, 385, 479

Ibn Manzur, Muhammad
ibn Makram, 44, 114,

Ibn Masoud, Abdullah (RA), 86, 220,
226, 241, 243, 247, 311,
391-393, 430

fellows of Ibn Masoud, 10, 220, 226,
241-244, 259, 311, 330, 331,
437, 451

Ibn Mufleh, Abdullah Al-Maqdesi,
334, 479

Ibn Salama, Hibatullah, 34, 40, 42,
52, 63, 71, 86, 100, 102, 119,
122, 124, 128, 157-159, 161,
164, 167, 170, 173, 177, 186,
189, 191, 286, 287, 293, 300,
309, 440, 479

Ibn Sallam, Abu-Ubaid Al-Qasim, 10,
52, 100, 111, 122, 147, 169,
172, 183, 220, 248, 300, 309,
327, 333, 334, 351-353, 368,
393, 426, 438, 451, 480

Ibn Sirin, Abu-Bakr Muhammad,
303,7004

Ibn Taymia, Ahmad, 19, 21, 26, 45,
51, 55, 60, 61, 89, 125, 219,
221, 227, 232, 242, 245, 247,
257, 277, 283, 296, 300, 301,
332, 374, 434, 434, 441, 480

INDEX

INDEX OF PERSONS

Ibn Umar, Abdullah (RA), 89, 96, 139,
317, 323, 353, 359, 367, 380,
383-388, 430

Ibn Uthaymin, Muhammad bin Salih,
13, 61, 301, 444, 480

Ibn Wagqid, Ali ibn Al-Hussein, 69,

Ibrahim, Professor Ahmed Bek, 17,
218, 227, 232, 329, 435,
435, 443, 480, 481

Ikrima, Abu-Abdillah, 161, 186, 188,
354, 368-373, 378, 389, 391,
393, 398, 416, 417, 421-428

Imara, Dr. Muhammad, 274, 481

Ismail, Dr. Shaaban, 267, 444, 481

Jumaa, Dr. Ali, 78, 124, 251, 274, 445

Khadija bint Khowayled (RA), 12
Khalid ibn Al-Walid (RA), 107, 108
Abdul-Wahab Khallaf, 23, 24, 64, 481

Makki ibn Abi-Talib, 24, 43, 46, 52
58, 63, 71, 100, 128, 146,
148, 163, 164, 183, 185, 186,
188, 191, 234, 259, 294, 300,
372, 392, 419, 426, 440, 481

Malik ibn Anas, 100, 101, 143, 251,
284, 285, 289, 302, 322, 418,
420, 431, 436, 481

Masrougq ibn Al-Ajdaa, 354

Mostafa, Dr. Muhammad Salih Ali,
43, 94, 445, 481

Mujahid ibn Jabr, 57-60, 62, 85, 96,
99, 139, 144, 163, 193, 220,
243, 244, 260, 300, 311, 319,
321,323, 331, 353,358, 363,
364, 372-377, 380, 384, 386,
390, 394, 416, 418, 427, 430,

Mulhim, Badr Nabil, 131, 482

Muaatil ibn Sulayman, 257, 287

Al-Nisapuri, Muslim ibn Al-Hajjaj, 7,
55, 80, 81, 84, 92, 95, 105,
116, 219, 259-261, 285, 310,
319, 322, 325, 349, 361, 381,
387, 390, 401, 403, 407, 412,
414, 421, 432, 451, 482

Nada, Muhammad Mahmoud, 32, 46,
94, 108, 113, 120, 158, 250,
274, 294, 320, 444, 482

Osama ibn Zayd (RA), 108

Qutb, Sayyed, 53, 104, 110, 113, 129,
171, 222, 235, 237, 268, 299,
301, 443, 482

Rana, Dr. M. Akram, 433, 482

Rida, Muhammad Rashid, 78, 85,
211, 212, 215, 274, 435, 443

Sabeq, Al-Sayyed, 183, 482

Salem ibn Abdullah ibn Umar, 387,

Salih, Dr. Ayman Ali, 282, 482

Supreme Council on Islamic Affairs,
98, 130, 274, 275, 299, 483

Shaker, Ahmad, 127, 353, 354, 358,
362, 383, 387, 399, 404, 413,

Shaltout, Mahmoud, 85, 249, 443, 483

Shibl ibn Abbad Al-Makki, 244, 331

Shula, Abu-Abdullah, 47, 135, 140,
141, 150, 163, 164, 168-170,
182, 187-189, 246, 250, 284,
441, 483

Sunstein, Cass R., 289, 292, 483

Tahir, Hani, 124, 246, 272, 274, 294,
303, 445, 483
Tawoos ibn Kaysan, 163, 354

Ubayy ibn Kaab (RA), 253, 260, 294,
295, 429

Umar ibn Al-Khattab (RA), 67, 68,
107, 108, 141, 253, 254, 294,
295, 327, 429, 430, 451

Uthman ibn Affan (RA), 58, 59, 252,
327, 379, 380, 425

Waliyullah, Ahmad Shah, 9, 11, 25,
30).36,.37, 43,47, 52, 74, TS,
85, 89, 101, 102, 120, 122,
133, 141, 145, 146, 150, 152,
154, 185, 247, 249, 283, 301,

INDEX INDEX OF PERSONS

310, 434, 435, 435, 443,
483, 484
Wensinck, Dr. Arend Jan, 349, 484

Zeid, Dr. Mostafa, 5, 9, 10, 14, 20,
25, 30, 35, 36, 38, 47, 53-55,
57, 58, 60-63, 72, 75, 76, 83,
84, 101, 102, 111, 124, 116,
109. 126. 129: 131. 133. 148.
150, 152, 154-158, 160, 161,
163, 165-167, 169, 172, 182,
189, 208, 213, 216, 220, 225,
235,236, 242, 243. 247, 248.
255, 25:1, 258,267, 269, 274,
283-285, 287, 291, 293,295,
296, 301, 309; 310, 312,331,
433, 436, 436, 444, 450,
451, 484

Zuhair, Dr. Muhammad, 25, 97, 228,

INDEX INDEX OF VERSES

Index of Verses

Chapter 2 (3,iJ!) Verse 219, 63, 67-70, 189, 368

Verse 2, 269, 270, 272, 304, 315

Verse 62, 167-169

Verse 78, 280

Verse 80, 165

Verse 81, 164-166

Verse 89, 222

Verse 90, 222

Verse 91, 222

Verse 93, 217

Verse 105, 222-224, 299, 454

Verse 106, 4, 17, 203, 210,
212,218, 223, 224, 241,259),
274-276, 279, 294, 299, 328,
369, 434, 451, 454

Verse 107, 213, 223

Verse 108, 211, 212, 223

Verse 109, 38, 186, 213, 223

Verse 110, 223, 328

Verse 111, 223

Verse 112, 223

Verse 115, 137-139, 352

Verse 132, 168

Verse 144, 33, 137, 138, 454

Verse 150, 139, 352

Verse 158, 190, 191

Verse 173, 160

Verse 178, 170-172

Verse 179, 172

Verse 180, 122, 310, 353-355,
357, 436

Verse 182, 192

Verse 183, 71, 140, 141, 314

Verse 184, 70-75, 269, 275, 314,
316, 358, 360, 361, 363-366

Verse 185, 70-75, 314, 316, 358,

Verse 187, 115, 140, 141, 314

Verse 190, 131, 178

Verse 191, 179

Verse 193, 180

Verse 194, 178

Verse 197, 328

Verse 215, 328

Verse 216, 182

Verse 217, 135, 136, 144

Verse 221, 183, 327

Verse 225, 87, 387

Verse 228, 369-371

Verse 229, 328, 371

Verse 234, 51-62, 269, 300, 374,

Verse 235, 53, 144

Verse 240, 51-62, 253, 269, 295,
300, 301, 310, 372-376, 378,

Verse 241, 53

Verse 253, 219

Verse 255, 218

Verse 256, 3, 41, 61, 128, 309

Verse 259, 260

Verse 272, 328

Verse 273, 328

Verse 284, 85-90, 380, 382-387

Verse 285, 88, 219, 380, 382,
384, 386

Verse 286, 43, 83, 85-90, 380-
382, 384-387

Chapter 3 (g\,© Jl)

Verse 41, 40, 184
Verse 50, 7, 246, 454
Verse 52, 168

Verse 85, 167-169
Verse 92, 328

Verse 100, 44—46
Verse 101, 44, 46
Verse 102, 21, 42-47, 315, 436
Verse 103, 46
Verse 115, 328
Verse 130, 64
Verse 173, 325

Chapter 4 (lJ!)

Verse 7, 123, 313, 357

Verse 8, 137, 192, 388, 389

Verse 9, 192, 193

Verse 11, 124, 313, 316, 355,

Verse 12, 52-55, 313, 316, 436

Verse 15, 75-85, 310, 390

Verse 16, 75-85, 310

INDEX INDEX OF VERSES

Verse 17, 165 Verse 1, 191
Verse 18, 164, 165 Verse 15, 109
Verse 20, 183, 328 Verse 16, 109
Verse 25, 105 Verse 41, 156, 157, 191
Verse 28, 106 Verse 60, 328
Verse 29, 390-392 Verse 64, 104
Verse 33, 142-144, 393-397 Verse 65, 90, 101-111, 310, 436
Verse 43, 9, 62-70, 295, 310, Verse 66, 101-111, 436
368 Verse 72, 398
Verse 48, 164-166, 173, 407 Verse 75, 143, 393, 398

Verse 71, 149, 258
Verse 82, 264, 265, 271, 304
Verse 92, 93, 176-178

Chapter 9 (4!)
Verse 1, 128, 130, 177, 325

Verse 93, 173-175, 259, 399- Verse 2, 131
405, 408, 410-415 Verse 3, 131
Verse 4, 131

Verse 116, 173-175
Verse 127, 328
Verse 153, 211

Verse 5, 127-134, 156, 325
Verse 6, 129-131

Verse 176, 313, 316 Verse 66,155
Verse 29, 127, 134
Chapter 5 (sul!) Verse 36, 127, 134, 135
Verse 2, 136, 142, 416, 417, 419 Verse 39, 258, 422
Verse 3, 14, 126, 160-163 Verse 41, 148, 150
Verse 5, 159-161, 163, 183, 326, Verse 44, 423
327, 421 Verse 60, 187-189
Verse 41, 278 Verse 84, 191
Verse 42, 145, 146, 416-419 Verse 91, 149, 150
Verse 45, 170, 171 Verse 92, 149
Verse 48, 329, 417 Verse 103, 189, 190
Verse 49, 145, 416, 418, 419 Verse 118, 191
Verse 69, 167, 169 Verse 120, 182, 422
Verse 90, 62-70, 368 Verse 121, 423
Verse 106, 146-148, 420 Verse 122, 148-150, 182, 423
Chapter 6 (st!) Chapter 10 (y)
Verse 15, 185 Verse 15, 185, 186
Verse 118, 421 Verse 37, 232
Verse 121, 159-161, 421 Verse 38, 232

Verse 141, 189

Verse 145, 162, 163 Chapter 11 (2,5)

Verse 108, 237
Chapter 7 (W\,.))

Verse 35, 214 Chanter 1? (ce)

Verse 80, 77 Verse 26, 18
Verse 81, 77 Chapter 13 (.+«)!)
Verse 106, 211 Verse 38, 235
Verse 138, 212 Verse 39, 204, 234, 235, 369
Verse 199, 186
. Chapter 16 (|!)
Chapter 8 (JI) Verse 86, 280

INDEX

INDEX OF VERSES

Verse 101, 203, 204, 210, 221,
229, 275, 279, 369, 454

Verse 102, 230

Verse 103, 230

Verse 106, 258, 424

Verse 110, 424

Verse 115, 160

Chapter 17 (¢\,.Y))
Verse 33, 170
Verse 79, 114

Chapter 18 (4,S)!)
Verse 27, 275
Verse 29, 128, 325

Chapter 19 (+)
Verse 64, 264
Verse 95, 191

Chapter 20 («b> )
Verse 114, 190

Chapter 22 (qe!)
Verse 39, 38
Verse 51, 277, 299
Verse 52, 190, 205, 234, 264,
267, 276-280, 297, 299
Verse 53, 279
Verse 54, 279

Chapter 24 (11)
Verse 2, 75-85, 152
Verse 3, 151, 152
Verse 27, 36
Verse 29, 36
Verse 31, 258, 425
Verse 32, 151, 152
Verse 33, 151
Verse 58, 137, 192
Verse 60, 426
Verse 61, 391
Verse 62, 424

Chapter 25 (96)
Verse 32, 12
Verse 68, 173-175, 259, 399-
401, 410, 411, 414
Verse 69, 175, 259
Verse 70, 175, 259, 400

Chapter 26 (¢\,.<JI)
Verse 224, 5, 426, 427

Verse 225, 5
Verse 226, 5
Verse 227, 5, 427

Chapter 33 (Ole)
Verse 6, 142, 143, 398, 399
Verse 49, 369, 370
Verse 50, 153-155
Verse 51, 155
Verse 52, 153-155, 310

Chapter 35 (,b\)
Verse 2, 328

Chapter 39 (4!)
Verse 13, 185

sys

Chapter 41 (-12:)
Verse 41, 266, 267
Verse 42, 266, 267
Verse 46, 264

Chapter 42 (6)541)
Verse 5, 261
Verse 40, 179
Verse 48, 131

Chapter 43 (%3%)|)
Verse 3, 236
Verse 4, 236

Chapter 48 (css!)
Verse 2, 186
Verse 17, 149

Chapter 51 (L)|UI)
Verse 52, 37
Verse 53, 37
Verse 54, 37
Verse 55, 38

Chapter 52 (,,b!!\)
Verse 21, 191

Chapter 53 (.>\)
Verse 39, 191

Chapter 57 (50!)
Verse 27, 315

Chapter 58 (Jot!)
Verse 11, 320
Verse 12, 90-99, 255, 285, 286,
290, 303, 310, 318, 320, 323,

INDEX

INDEX OF VERSES

Verse 13, 91-99, 285, 323, 324
Verse 22, 184

Chapter 59 (,53!)
Verse 9, 317

Chapter 60 (452.41)
Verse 8, 39, 184
Verse 9, 39
Verse 10, 155, 183
Verse 11, 156, 157

Chapter 61 (Ci!)
Verse 2, 245, 268
Verse 3, 245, 267, 268, 304

Chapter 62 (4x>JI)
Verse 9, 429

Chapter 64 (..;l))
Verse 16, 21, 42-47, 315, 436

Chapter 65 (@>b)!)
Verse 2, 146
Verse 4, 369, 370

Chapter 73 (\254J!)

Verse 1, 90, 111-120, 303, 310,

Verse 2, 90, 111-120, 303, 310,
324, 428

Verse 3, 90, 111-120, 303, 310,
324, 428

Verse 4, 90, 111-120, 303, 310,

Verse 5, 40, 113

Verse 6, 428

Verse 7, 428

Verse 20, 111-120, 324, 428

Chapter 74 (33s)
Verse 1, 112
Verse 2, 113
Verse 38, 191

Chapter 75 (4&Lil)
Verse 16, 190

Chapter 76 (gl.'¥!)
Verse 26, 114

Chapter 86 (,\b!!)
Verse 1, 314
Verse 2, 314

Verse 3, 314

Chapter 87 (del)
Verse 6, 190, 204, 237
Verse 7, 204, 237

Chapter 98 (43!)
Verse 1, 327

Chapter 103 (,.2#))
Verse 2, 34, 303
Verse 3, 34, 303

Chapter 112 (_2+)1)
Verse 1, 219
