Title: THE SPRING KINGDOM
Author: Talha Kaplan & Cemre Melek Küçük
ISBN: 9786250028254
Source: https://archive.org/details/the-spring-kingdom-play
Licence: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/

THE SPRING KINGDOM

By Cemre Melek Kiictik & Talha Kaplan

THE SPRING KINGDOM

© Talha Kaplan, 2025

EDITOR
DR. DERYA ORUC

PEDAGOJIK ONAY
DR. EMINE AYYILDIZ

GORSEL YONETMEN
IPEK KOTIL

SOZ VE BESTE
SEYBANUR MEMIS

ISBN 978-625-00-2825-4

Bu kitabin tiim yayin haklari saklidir.
Tanitim amaciyla, kaynak géstermek sartiyla yapilacak kisa alintilar disinda gerek metin gerek gérsel malzeme yayinevinden izin
alinmadan higbir yolla cogaltilamaz, yayimlanamaz ve dagitilamaz.

All rights reserved.
No part of this book may be reproduced, distributed, or transmitted in any form or by any means, including photocopying,
recording, or other electronic or mechanical methods, without the prior written permission of the publisher, except in the case of
brief quotations in reviews and certain other noncommercial uses permitted by copyright law.

Iletisim Bilgileri
Sorulariniz, izin talepleriniz veya toplu alimlar icin liitfen asagidaki iletisim bilgilerini kullanarak bizimle iletisime gegin:

Talha Kaplan / talhakaplan1713@gmail.com

THE SPRING KINGDOM

By
Cemre Melek Kucik
&

Talha Kaplan

FOREWORD

Understanding the emotions and bond between a mother and her child is
never easy. It is both magnificent and challenging at the same time. This
is exactly the case with Alex and his mother. They deeply love each
other, yet their personalities, passions, desires, and motivations differ.

This is, in fact, a natural part of human relationships.

Although this story has a heartwarming ending, it highlights the
importance of mutual understanding between parents and children,
respecting each other's decisions, and accepting one another as they
are—even when it is difficult. In real life, children learn this through the

guidance of adults.

The Spring Kingdom is not only a play for children but also a guiding
narrative for parents. It intricately weaves themes of friendship, care,
trust, anxiety, sadness, loss, and forgiveness in a pedagogically sound
manner. I truly believe that this play will serve as a valuable resource for
both parents and children who encounter these themes and challenges in

their daily lives.

Dr. Emine Ayyildiz

Licensed Psychologist
Early Childhood Education Specialist

INTRODUCTION

The Spring Kingdom is an interactive story play designed to spark
children's imagination while blending educational values. This
pedagogically approved play aims to teach essential concepts such as

exploration, friendship, and responsibility in a fun and engaging way.

This is not just a play performed by actors on stage—it is an interactive
experience where the audience becomes part of the adventure. Children
actively participate in the storyline by making choices, engaging with
the characters, and influencing the flow of events. In this way, they are

not just spectators but also heroes of the story.

With its engaging dialogues, heartwarming themes of friendship, and
educational content, The Spring Kingdom offers a unique experience that
nurtures creativity while fostering empathy, problem-solving, and

teamwork skills in children.

Are you ready? Let the adventure begin!

DRAMATIS PERSONAE

SHELBY the turtle, storyteller

CASSANDRA, queen of the Spring Kingdom

ALEX, son to Cassandra, prince of the Spring Kingdom
LEO the lion, best friend to Alex

BINKY the bunny, best friend to Foxy

FOXY the fox, best friend to Binky

BEATRICE, orange peddler

SHEIBA, court singer

Members of the audience

THE SPRING KINGDOM

ACT I.

SCENE I. The Spring Kingdom. The courtyard.

Enter SHELBY THE TURTLE

Shelby the turtle. Hello everyone, my name is Shelby, Shelby the
turtle. I am going to tell you a story about a magical kingdom. In a far
faraway land, there was a Spring Kingdom ruled by a magical Queen.
Her name was Cassandra. She controlled the weather with her magical
powers. And she loved flowers. So, it was always spring. Everybody in

the kingdom was very happy.
Enter QUEEN CASSANDRA
Shelby the turtle. And this queen had a son named Alex.
Enter ALEX

Shelby the turtle. And this fine gentleman had a best friend, Leo the

Lion.
Enter LEO THE LION

(Alex runs to Leo. They hug.)

Leo the lion. Here, I made a necklace for you. Look, I have the

same one.
Alex. My best friend! I will never take this off.
Shelby the turtle. But Alex and Leo were not the only best friends in

the forest. There was Binky the Bunny and Foxy the Fox.
Enter BINKY THE BUNNY and FOXY THE FOX
(They hug.)

Shelby the turtle. And the last character in our story comes from the
Kingdom Next-Door. Her name is Beatrice. She is a salesperson. She
sells oranges which she picks out of her garden. But she is, no, she was

also an evil person.
Enter BEATRICE

(-with a basket full of oranges. Leo roars in dislike.)

Shelby the turtle. Nobody liked her.
(Alex, impressed by Leo' roar, copies him)
Alex. Can you teach me how to roar like that?
Leo the Lion. Of course! Repeat after me.
(Both roar. Both not good at it.)

Alex. It is so hard.

Shelby the Turtles story book.

Leo the lion. No, it is not.
(Walks center-stage and asks the audience)

Leo the lion. Is it really hard? Can you help me teach Alex to

roar? Repeat after me.
(Leo roars and so does everyone.)
Leo the lion. Try again! Alex can't hear you! ... Great job!

Shelby the turtle. Enough with the roars. I have a story to tell.
Shew... Shew... Our story started on a sunny day, when Alex wanted to

go beyond the forest.

Exit LEO THE LION, BINKY THE BUNNY, FOXY THE FOX and
SHELBY THE TURTLE

Alex. But mom! I want to see the Kingdom Next-Door.

Queen Cassandra. _ For the last time Alex, it is dangerous out there.

You are safe in this forest.
Alex. I want to see new places and meet new people.

Queen Cassandra. — And you will when you get older. You are too

young.
Enter SHELBY THE TURTLE
Shelby the turtle. My Queen! We need your help!

Queen Cassandra. | What happened?

Shelby the turtle. There is a fire at the castle. We need you to make

it rain.
Queen Cassandra. Alright let's go.
(To Alex)
Queen Cassandra. You stay right here. Don't go anywhere.
Alex. Again? Ugh- okay I will stay right here.
Exit QUEEN CASSANDRA and SHELBY THE TURTLE

Alex. Everyone's gone. Why do I have to stay here? If I
wait and ask her again, she will say "No Alex! It is not safe Alex!".

Maybe, If I go now, maybe I can come back before my mother does.

(Looks around and checks if anybody is around. Quietly walks towards
the forest.)

Enter QUEEN CASSANDRA

Queen Cassandra. Alex, I'm back. ... Alex? Alex! Where are you?
ALEEEX!!!

Exit QUEEN CASSANDRA

END ACT I. SCENE L.

SCENE II. The Spring Kingdom. The forest.

Enter SHELBY THE TURTLE

(Shelby at stage-left, Queen Cassandra center-stage. Spring turns into

fall because the queen is very sad. Everyone is searching for Alex in the

forest.)

Shelby the turtle. As soon as Alex was gone, Queen Cassandra
became very sad. She became so sad that she used her magic and turned
the Spring Kingdom into the Fall Kingdom. No one could find Alex, and
everyone was unhappy at the Fall Kingdom. Where was Alex? No one
knew where he was. They kept on looking for him. Everyone missed
prince Alex very much. Meanwhile, Binky saw Alex in her dream. Alex
was at the Kingdom Next-Door. So, after feeling sad for a long time,

Foxy and Binky decided to search for Alex.

Exit SHELBY THE TURTLE, Enter BINKY THE BUNNY and FOXY
THE FOX

(Binky has two shovels. Gives one to Foxy.)

Binky the Bunny. I'm so tired of feeling sad. I miss Alex a lot. I saw
Alex in my dream, and I want to go and look for him. What do you

think?

Foxy the Fox. I don't know Binky. The queen said no one can

leave the kingdom.

Enter LEO THE LION
Leo the Lion. What are you two doing?
Foxy the Fox. Ummm... nothing.

(Foxy tries to hide the shovel.)

Binky the Bunny. I saw Alex in my dream. So, we are going to dig a
tunnel to go to the Kingdom Next-Door. We are going to look for Alex.

Do you want to come?

Leo the Lion. Oh my God! I saw him in my dream too. I was

going to dig a tunnel as well. He is my best friend you know ...

Binky the Bunny. Great, start digging then. Here, take my shovel.
Foxy the Fox. Guys, I don't know why, but I am scared.
Binky the Bunny. Why?

Foxy the Fox. I think it is because we are doing something secret

for the first time.
Leo the Lion. You know, it's okay to be scared. I'm scared too.

Binky the Bunny. Okay, look at me. Let's hold hands and take a

deep breath ... yes ... one more ... and one more ...

(To the audience)

Binky the Bunny. Can you show Leo and Foxy how it's done?
Breath in ... Breath out ... Good job friends!

(Back to Foxy and Leo.)
Binky the Bunny. Feeling better?
(Both Foxy and Leo nod.)
Binky the Bunny. Okay then, Let's go!
(Binky digs with her paws while the other two uses the shovels.)

Binky the Bunny. I am doing all the work. I am so tired. We need

another bunny to help us go faster.
(To the audience)
Binky the Bunny. Who wants to help us?
Enter two MEMBERS OF THE AUDIENCE

(Binky gives them bunny hats and shows them how to dig. They help
digging for a while.)

Binky the Bunny. Thank you for all the help guys.

Exit two MEMBERS OF THE AUDIENCE
Leo the Lion. Yaaay!!! We can finally go through.
Foxy the Fox. Let's go!

(They all go through the tunnel.)

Binky the Bunny, Leo the Lion, and Foxy the Fox looking down the

tunnel.

END ACT I. SCENE IL.

ACT IL.

SCENE I. The Kingdom Next-Door. Street market.

Shelby the turtle.

Enter SHELBY THE TURTLE

Something very interesting happens at the

Kingdom Next-Door. A woman finds Alex and makes him work for her

at her garden and at the street market for years.

Exit SHELBY THE TURTLE, Enter ALEX and BEATRICE

Alex.
Beatrice.

Alex.
hungry.

Beatrice.

and do your work!

Alex. (Aside)

person.

Shelby the turtle.

I am so tired. Isn't it enough for today?
Only I decide when it is enough.

But I have been working for hours. I am so

You will eat when we get home. Now, stop talking

I wish I didn't have to work for such an evil

Enter SHELBY THE TURTLE

After Alex got lost in the forest, he found himself

at the Kingdom Next-Door. He was walking around and suddenly

something scary happened. Beatrice tricked Alex and took him away.

The evil woman made him work very hard as you can see...
(Alex drops oranges from the cart. Shelby runs to help him.)

Shelby the turtle. While Alex was suffering, his friends Leo, Binky
and Foxy go through the tunnel and end up at the Kingdom Next-Door.

Exit SHELBY THE TURTLE, Enter LEO THE LION, BINKY THE
BUNNY and FOXY THE FOX

Binky the bunny. Wow! I didn't know that this kingdom was as big

as ours.
Leo the lion. You are right. It's amazing!

Foxy the fox. Can we go back now?

Binky the bunny. No! We came all the way out here. We need to

find Alex! I know he is here somewhere!
Leo the lion. Oh look! There is a street market over there.
Binky the Bunny. So cool. Let's go and check it out.

(Beatrice sees them. Alex arranges the oranges)

Beatrice. (Aside) I did not see them here before. They must be new,

and they look very young too. Maybe I can make them work for me.

(Beatrice approaches and talks to Binky, Foxy, and Leo)

Leo the Lion, Foxy the Fox, Binky the Bunny, at the street market with

Beatrice.

Beatrice. Hello children, you must be new here. I'm
Beatrice, everyone loves me around here. Would you like to come to my

stand and help me?

Foxy the fox. Yes, of course we will help.

Leo the lion. Well, you can't find anyone stronger than me for
this job.

Binky the bunny. Are you sure? I think we can find lions stronger
than you.

(To the audience)
Binky the bunny. Are there any other lions stronger than Leo?
Enter two MEMBERS OF THE AUDIENCE
(Binky gives them lion hats. They help Beatrice carry her bags.)

Binky the bunny. Look. They helped her more than you. So, they

are both stronger than you.

Leo the lion. Oh yes, they are.

Foxy the fox. Thank you so much for your help, guys.
Exit two MEMBERS OF THE AUDIENCE

Beatrice. Oh, such helpful children you are. I wish you

could all stay with me.

Foxy the fox. Thank you but we have a home. We just want to

find our friend.

Beatrice. Will you stay with me if I give you some oranges?
(To Alex afar.)
Beatrice. Alex! Bring me some oranges!

(As Alex carries the oranges, he trips and falls. His necklace breaks off.)

Beatrice. He can't do anything right. That's why I need you

to stay here.

(Leo goes to help Alex. They pick up the oranges together. Leo picks the
necklace off the ground and looks at it carefully. Then he looks at Alex
and his own necklace. To be sure he repeats this a couple of times. Alex

is unrecognizable because he is so thin. Leo realizes that he really is

Alex.)
Leo the lion. Alex! I missed you so much.
(Leo hugs Alex with joy.)
Alex. Leo? LEO! Is that really you?

Binky the bunny
and Foxy the fox ALEX! Oh my GOD! Alex!

(Binky and Foxy join the hug. They start jumping up and down as they
hug.)

Leo the Lion hands over Alex s necklace which he finds on the ground.

Beatrice. Stop this! What's happening?

(Beatrice tries to separate them.)
Beatrice. Alex! How do you know them? Who are they?
Alex. They are my friends. My best friends!!!

(To Leo, Binky, and Foxy)

Alex. Please get me out of here. She is making me work
for her.

Leo the lion. What! How can she do such a bad thing? I will
show her!

Foxy the fox. Leo, calm down. We must get Alex out of here
first.

Binky the bunny. Foxy is right ... for once.
(Beatrice pointing at Alex, shouts.)
Beatrice. You are not going anywhere.

(Beatrice pointing at the others, shouts.)

Beatrice. And you can't take him from me. He is mine!
Binky the bunny. We are not staying here.
Foxy the fox. Enough! He is our friend, and we are taking him

home.

Leo the lion. Climb on my shoulders Alex, let's go.
(Leo, Binky, Foxy and Alex run towards the tunnel as Beatrice screams.)
Beatrice. You are not going anywhere!

(Beatrice starts chasing them but stumbles over an orange)

Beatrice. Oh! My back! My knees! Alex! ALEEEX!
DON'T GOOO!!!

Exit ALEX, LEO THE LION, FOXY THE FOX and BINKY THE
BUNNY

END ACT II. SCENE I.

SCENE I. The Spring Kingdom. The Forest.

Enter QUEEN CASSANDRA and SHELBY THE TURTLE

Shelby the turtle. My Queen, your kingdom needs you. You have

work to do.

Queen Cassandra. 1 know Shelby but I miss my son ... I miss Alex so

much ...
Shelby the turtle. I understand, believe me everyone misses him.

(The queen hears a sound coming from the underground)

Queen Cassandra. _ Did you hear that?
Shelby the turtle. Hear what?
Queen Cassandra. |The sound came from underneath.
(The queen hears it again)
Queen Cassandra. Did you hear it this time?
(Shelby, to the audience.)

Queen Cassandra. _ Let's be very quiet ... shhhhhhh! Do you hear
anything?

(Leo, Binky, Foxy and Alex come out of the tunnel. Leo runs to the

queen.)

Leo the lion. My queen, my queen we found him! We found

Alex!
Queen Cassandra. | What? Alex? Where is he?
Alex. Mom... I'm - I'm here.

(Queen Cassandra and Alex run to each other and hug. The moment

they hug The Fall Kingdom turns back into The Spring Kingdom.)
Binky the bunny. Aww ...
Foxy the fox. So cute.

(Leo looks around and sees the change.)

Leo the lion. Wow! Everything is back to normal.

Queen Cassandra. | Where were you? I missed you so much. From
now on I will listen to you and try to understand your needs. And please
share the things you want to do with me, so we can have a conversation

about it. Please don't you EVER run away again!

Alex. I'm very sorry mommy. I'm so sorry. From now on

I will always talk to you before I do anything.
Leo the lion. Welcome back to your kingdom.
Queen Cassandra. | Welcome home my dear.

Exit QUEEN CASSANDRA, ALEX, BINKY THE BUNNY, FOXY
THE FOX, LEO THE LION

Shelby the turtle. After Queen Cassandra gets her son back, the Fall
Kingdom transforms into the Spring Kingdom. Now, Alex knows what
is dangerous and what is not. The queen and Alex have learned a great

lesson. And that is: 'They should always listen to each other'.
(Asks the audience)
Shelby the turtle. Do you agree?
(A 'Yes' from the audience is expected here.)

Shelby the turtle. Great! Everybody is so happy that Alex came,

they have a big party and invite everyone. Now, who wants to join the

party? We have the queen's singer Sheiba who will sing for us... So, let's

dance!
Enter SHEIBA
(Sheiba brings her ukulele)
(All characters in the play come on stage as she starts to sing.)

(As the song starts, Beatrice comes forward with a case of oranges to
show remorse. She asks for forgiveness. Cassandra does not want to
forgive her, but she sees that Alex is willing. Thus, she forgives Beatrice.

This part has no dialogue but is explained by actions.)

Shelby the turtle. Now we need an elephant. Who wants to be an

elephant?

Queen Cassandra. 1 am looking for a panda, can you guys help me

find one?

Leo the lion. Where are my two lion friends?
(Leo roars.)

Binky the bunny. And where are my bunny friends?

(Animal hats are distributed to the on-stage and off-stage audience. Off-
stage audience is encouraged to dance in their seats. They all celebrate

the return of Alex by dancing to Sheiba's song.)

END ACT II. SCENE IL.

Celebration of Alex s return to the kingdom.

THE SPRING KINGDOM Lyrics

Beatrice was tricky
In the Fall Kingdom

With oranges to sell
Leaves were all brown

She took Alex away(!)
Shelby the Turtle told

With all her spell
A tale of the sad crown

Friends dug a tunnel
The magic of the Queen

Found him at last
Made flowers bloom

Rescued Alex(!)
But when Alex was lost

The danger passed
It brought in gloom

CHORUS (X2)
CHORUS (X2)

Binky the Bunny, Leo the Lion
Binky the Bunny, Leo the Lion

Shelby the Turtle, and Foxy the Fox
Shelby the Turtle, and Foxy the Fox

Friends of Alex and his mommy too
Friends of Alex, and his mommy too

Happily, united... come sing with us too...
Waiting for the Kingdom

To become true

THE END
